Hey everyone, this is James Lindsay, you are listening to the New Discourses podcast.
And finally, after months of anticipation, after many times on Twitter of this blowing
up, I want to talk to you about Hegel.
I've been promising to talk about the Hegelian idea for a while, I've been tweeting about
it.
Something peculiar happens every time you tweet about Hegel and you get too close.
For example, if you point out that wokeism is a Hegelian religion, especially if you
point out that wokeism is a hermetic religion based in the dialectical philosophy of Hegel.
Something weird happens, people go berserk.
You end up or I end up at least getting bombed by people in kind of disproportionate fashion
and something very inorganic begins to happen in many of these cases.
Of course, there's a usual making fun of me, but lots of very obviously leftist accounts
kind of lose their mind, pop up on my radar.
And what will happen is stuff that's just not quite real, something that's hyper real
in a sense.
And that'll be that somebody will throw a dunk and somebody with maybe just a few dozen
followers will reply to something maybe in dunk fashion and a reply tweet from an account
that's not very big will somehow get hundreds of likes sometimes in a very small amount
of time.
It's not organic behavior.
Something weird going on with Hegel and this has driven me to want to understand more of
Hegel.
Hegel is of course relevant to everybody who knows much about Marx knows that Hegel is
relevant to Marx and I want to make the case that Hegel is relevant to what's going on
and in fact that we can understand the woke ideology or woke worldview as a better way
to put it, the worldview of critical social justice also known as theory as a Hegelian
faith.
And so to begin, this is probably going to go pretty long because I want to do this
in depth.
I want to get it all there.
I have copious notes for this.
I want to just read to you something that might not stick out to you otherwise from
critical race theory and introduction.
This is by Richard Delgado and Jean Stefansic.
It's a typical fundamental textbook in critical race theory.
And I've quoted from it about a bajillion times.
So I just want to read to you this paragraph in the section about essentialism and anti-essentialism.
They write,
Some observers hold that all minority races should compromise their differences and form
a united front against racism in general.
The danger in this essentialized approach is that certain minority groups, socioeconomic
classes and sexual orientations may end up better off and others worse.
Tell how shabbily black women were treated in the civil rights movement of the 1960s,
rarely allowed to speak for the group, made to march in the second row, and relegated
with a few exceptions to support roles.
It has only been relatively recently that black women in Latinas have emerged as powerful
voices on the American scene.
Perhaps the essentialism slash anti-essentialism debate sets in when mainstream thought is
beginning to see the validity in the larger groups' complaints.
Like an automobile with deferred maintenance, smaller subgroups that have until then remained
silent begin bringing suppressed issues to the larger groups' attention.
And so the dialectic progresses.
That's the end of the quote, but let's check that last part.
That word, dialectic, is not there by mistake.
Neither is the idea that's put forth with the dialectic that it's progressing and in
fact neither is the idea that it's progressing into a smaller and more niche area.
So what the argument here is that they're making in this last sentence is that as larger
scale problems seem to be getting sorted out, smaller scale problems get brought up to
the fore and have to be worked out as well, and so the dialectic progresses.
None of this is there by mistake.
So in this episode of the podcast, I want to convince you of two primary things.
They're going to be kind of my north star, I suppose, in communicating this stuff to
you.
One, this idea of dialectic is important.
In fact, it is the operating system of leftists and it has been for almost 200 years.
It's so important that if you don't understand this seemingly quirky word and where it comes
from philosophically, you don't have the slightest idea of what's going on in leftist politics.
Secondly, this dialectic is a method of worship and a broad religious movement that started
primarily with Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel in the early 19th century.
A phenomenology of spirit in 1807 is probably a good bookmark to say when this started.
So we're looking at 214 years since the publication of that book.
His later writings extend into the late 1820s.
So we're looking at roughly 200 years ago.
That broad Hegelian religion has denominations that include Marxism, Neo-Marxism, also known
as critical theory or cultural Marxism, Fabianism, and Wokeness.
So I want to convince you of these two things.
The dialectic is the operating system of leftism and that leftism that's operating dialectically
is in fact a religion that can be traced back to the metaphysics of Hegel.
That's a tall order, but I think it's crucial if you want to understand what's going on
with the woke, why it appears to be religious, why it has many of the features that it does.
If you want to be able to anticipate the moves that it makes, if you want to be able to counter it,
you have to understand it.
The Polish proverb is never attempt to cure that which you don't understand, so I want
to make sure we understand that leftism, in particular this kind of radical leftism,
the line of Marxism, Neo-Marxism, Fabianism, and Wokeness that have really characterized
leftism over the past 200 years, or at least 150 years, starting with Marxism, I guess.
Those are all species within a broader or denominations within a broader religious movement
that relies upon the dialectical approach laid out first in significance by Hegel.
So the rough picture I want to paint, we could go back, the dialectic really finds its first
expression in Kant, we're not going to talk about Kant.
It was developed further by Fichte, we're also not going to talk about Fichte, and there
Hegel picks up the story, so we're going to start with Hegel.
If you want to know more about those other things, you can talk to my friend Stephen
Hicks, or you can listen to or read his book, I listened to it, so I automatically went
to the audiobook explaining postmodernism.
He has some of the relevance of Hegel and Fichte, a number of other thinkers that led
up to before Hegel, but I'm going to begin with Hegel.
So what happened is that Hegel eventually died, but a movement, he was really an electoral
rock star at the time where he was in Germany, and a movement arose around him, or actually
a few movements arose around his systematic philosophy, and the progressive one of these
was known as the Young Hegelian Movement.
The Young Hegelian Movement is what inspired Marx, and Marxism became the definition of
basically everything leftism following Marx, but especially following the success of the
Russian Revolution, it was voiced by Lenin, it also gave rise to Neo-Marxism, and approximately
in a kind of odd and broken way postmodernism, and of course my thesis in cynical theories
which I wrote with Helen Pluckrose, is that Neo-Marxism and postmodernism fused with a
few other things that were going on to form what we now call woke.
So we have this line, Hegel to the Young Hegelian Movement, to Marx via Fauerbach, to Neo-Marxism
and to some degree postmodernism in sort of a broken way to woke, and we have this long
thread running of this one religion that's taking different denominational forms as it's
going through time.
You could say that the woke are in some sense, you could say that in fact in some odd sense
the Neo-Marxists are almost like it's Calvinists or even the woke are like it's Puritans.
If you read something like Robin D'Angelo's wife fragility and you're aware of what a
Puritan confessional tract looks like where they're going through their humiliation after
they believe that they've been saved, it's pretty obvious.
Robin D'Angelo feels as though she has been saved in an anti-racist religion, she knows
that racism is bad, that she feels like she's done the proper atonement that she should
have received grace but because it's a Puritan mindset that she's operating within, she's
got scrupulosity probably which is a form of OCD if I had to guess, can't diagnose her
for sure.
She enters into this humiliation where she tries to repeatedly show that she's utterly
depraved and therefore going to be able to be worthy of justification and then eventually
glorification.
This is the mindset of the woke.
You can see this is a very religious way when you read Robin D'Angelo if you're familiar
with Puritan tracts.
The big idea, there are lots of big ideas in Hegel, lots of things going on.
I want to follow that particular track, Hegel to the Young Hegelian Movement, to Marx to
Neo-Marxism and Postmodernism in a broken way, to the woke.
The one that I want to focus on centrally is this operating system that Hegel laid out
in an applicative way probably for the first time, which is the dialectic.
Dialectic is thesis, antithesis, synthesis.
Those are the words usually here.
You have some idea that's a thesis, you're met with its opposite, that's the antithesis.
You have to contemplate the two, figure out a way to bring them together into something
that unifies the ideas and that's a synthesis that's supposed to provide more information.
A higher understanding is a better way to phrase that, I'm sorry, of the circumstance.
The thesis is an idea that has been forwarded, it misses something, its antithesis reveals
the contradictions from what it's missing and its synthesis arrives out of this.
This can be traced back to Socratic thought.
There are positive and negative versions of this note.
I suppose we should say that Hegel never actually framed the dialectic this way as thesis, antithesis
that's Kant's organization, Hegel borrowed from Kant.
His own formulation was actually abstract negative concrete, so you have an abstract
idea, abstract understanding of something, it meets its negative and that allows you
to derive something concrete from it, which is clearly reflected in the Neo-Marxist literature
repeatedly if you've read it because the Neo-Marxist literature constantly calls for engaging in
so-called negative thinking and negative thinking is bringing that negative to bear, which is
the critique Marx's ruthless criticism of everything that exists that's bringing the
negative to bear on the abstract so that you can synthesize it to the concrete, which
is a concrete solution, which usually for them means something looking like communism.
You can hear this verbiage for example, just to pull one example out of Herbert Marcuse,
I've read Herbert Marcuse's repressive tolerance essay before, I've read selections from his
one-dimensional man, we're going to cover some of both of those again in this episode,
but in his 1969 essay on liberation, which I intend to read for the podcast in full
with commentary fairly soon, I have not read that one yet, but we encounter this paragraph.
Marcuse writes, but the demand to state the concrete alternatives to, say, the failing
states of the world, capitalist states, particularly that he's looking at, but also
the failures of attempted socialist and communist states, he says,
but the demand to state the concrete alternatives is justified for yet another reason.
Negative thinking, there it is, draws whatever force it may have from its empirical basis,
the actual human condition in the given society. So he's like, let's look at the lived experiences,
look where suffering and oppression are, let's tap into those, and we're going to use negative
thinking to do so, and it's empirical because we're looking at the actual experiences people
are having, the actual human condition. And then you're going to compare that, he writes,
and the given possibilities to transcend this condition, to enlarge the realm of freedom.
In this sense, negative thinking is by virtue of its own internal concepts positive. Negative
thinking is positive. Isn't that odd? What he says that means is oriented toward and
comprehending a future which is contained in the present. This containment idea is going to
be very important also that this perfect future, the negative thinking can unleash,
is contained in the present. The philosophy here, the metaphysic here is actually that if we could
just get the problems off of that contained future, then the contained future could emerge.
So what we have here is somebody believing that there's this kind of perfect future,
and if we could just get the problems off of it by using negative thinking, we could peel away
all the problematics, we could expose all the contradictions, we could expose all of the systems
of oppression that prevent it from being perfect, then that seed that's contained within in the
present day would be able to blossom into a fully liberated society. That's the essay on liberation.
That's a very important way. We're going to come back to this again and again. It's a very important
way to understand the way that these people think, and it's crucial to understand that this is a
Hegelian approach. But to go back to Marcuse, he writes, and this containment, which is an
important aspect of the general containment policy pursued by the established societies,
oh sorry, and in this containment, the future appears as possible liberation. So that's what
I was just saying. In the contained within the society, we see the seed of liberation,
the seed of a new society that cannot and does not exist anywhere on earth up to this point.
And he writes, it is not the only alternative, the advent of a long period of civilized barbarism
with or without the nuclear destruction is equally contained in the present. So there
could be good roads or bad roads. Negative thinking and the praxis guided by it is the
positive and positing effort to prevent this utter negativity. So he frames out negative
thinking as positive, and he says that it allows us to peel away the constraints
of a civilized barbarism in the established societies, peel away the problematics, and get
the seed of a more perfected future using negative thinking and the praxis guided by it. Praxis is
what you have when you combine theory, meaning really Hegelian reason, as we're going to see,
but we could say critical theory, we could say postmodern theory, we could say woke or theory,
if you want, what we just call capital T theory, put into practice. That's what praxis is,
it's theory combined with being put into practice. So it's activism on behalf of a theoretical or
ideological model. Well, when we take negative thinking, and we do activism on behalf of that,
then this negative thinking becomes positive because it prevents us from going into the
possible calamities that are also contained in the seed of a more perfect liberated future
could possibly blossom. It's very important, as you'll see, to understand that this is how
this Hegelian religion thinks. Perfected society, we already have the seeds of it,
and we just have to somehow peel away the problems, and then the perfected society will
emerge. If you've listened to my other recent podcast, Communism Doesn't Know How, I go into this
kind of magical thinking that they have, and I actually describe it as alchemical, and you're
going to find out why I describe it as alchemical again and again as we go through this longer
discussion of Hegel and his relevance. So this said, I think we already see then that to understand
both the leftism over the last 200 years, but also Hegel's relevance to that, we have to grapple
with this idea of the dialectic. Because this is, as I said, the operating system beneath all of
leftism, at least since Hegel's time. And it really emerged in the form that we're looking at
in leftism from the progressive school of thought that followed him in the 1820s and 1830s. This
referred to as young Hegelianism. Young Hegelianism, I'm not going to dive deeply into this because
I want to get to Marx and the Neo-Marxists, etc. But in the woke, young Hegelianism has to be
distinguished from old Hegelianism. So Hegel is not particularly easy to decipher, if you haven't
read him. He can be quite difficult to decipher, actually. And so radically different interpretations
of Hegel erupted in the wake of Hegel's later years in death, one of which is young Hegelianism,
which was rampantly progressive, and one of which was old Hegelianism, which was ultra-conservative.
In essence, very briefly, Hegel's philosophy, his systematic philosophy that he laid out,
was supposed to describe the emergence of a perfected state and perfected society
through the perfection of ideas. And the young Hegelians looked around at the world that they
lived in in the 1820s and 1830s in Prussia and said, we're not there yet. There are all kinds
of problems the dialectic has to be applied to. There are all kinds of contradictions
in our experience. Whereas the old Hegelians, being ultra-conservative, looked at the state of
society they lived in and said, aha, Hegel was saying that we're already there. And so Hegel's
dialectic had already fully achieved what it had aimed to do, the absolute as Hegel had it,
and thus the perfected state of society, already had realized itself and emerged in
Prussia at the time, which would then demand that in the sense that history had ended,
capital H history. And so absolutely no change would be needed from this kind of historical
high point, which was a sort of proto-folkish national organization of the Prussian state
in the mid 19th century. So the young Hegelians have to be distinguished from this and that they
looked at this old Hegelian idea and thought, no, no way. There's all kinds of problems. And the
young Hegelians had a student within their ranks, Karl Marx. Karl Marx was a young Hegelian. He was
also influenced by other thinkers, as we'll discuss, who were also in this kind of idealist
tradition. What do we have? Kant develops the dialectic, Fick to develops it further. This
inspires Schelling, who worked alongside, but not with Hegel. And both Schelling and Hegel were
profound influences on Marx. But nevertheless, Marx was actually a young Hegelian. And so we can
just turn to kind of understand the centrality of the dialectic, Hegel's dialectical application
to Marx by going to the marxist.org glossary. I love marxist.org. I love to read this. I love to
see the way the Marxists interpret these terms. It gives you tremendous, I'm writing an encyclopedia
on my own website on new discourses. So it gives me a tremendous insight into how these people
think about their own terms. Of course, the woke are different than the Marxists, but it does give
good historical insight and helps me open up my mind and understand how they use the terms in
multiple ways at once. But reading from the marxist.org glossary, the entry on Hegel, what they
write is the most important representative. This is describing Hegel, the most important
representative of classical German philosophy. He represented an objective idealism, a brilliant
investigator of the laws of dialectic, which he was the first consciously to apply.
Marxists today believe that Hegel began the dialectical application. That dialectical application
is what Marx turned into dialectical materialism, which is the mode by which Marxism progressed
and thought. Sort of the article of faith. It's like the religious engine of Marxism is dialectical
materialism. So we have the kind of just to summarize historically, we have Kant formulae
destructive of the dialectic. This was developed further by Fichte, and went on to inspire Shelling.
Also, Hegel would have been steeping in all this, and through both Hegel and Shelling,
and also the way the Faurbach had taken up from Hegel's thought within the Young Hegelian movement,
Marx was able to take all these ideas and create dialectical materialism by putting his own spin
on it. So Hegel took all these theoretical developments on the dialectic, and he saw it
to make them practical. That was what that's what the Marxists say. He was the first consciously
to apply the laws of dialectic. And of course, ironically enough, he did this dialectically,
or maybe it's not ironic, maybe it's necessary to how he would approach. He took the abstract,
remember his formulation wasn't thesis and synthesis, although we're going to kind of cling
to that because it's easy to understand his was abstract, negative, concrete. So he took the abstract
form of dialectic put forth by Kant, challenged it against its negative to arrive at a concrete
applicable form that the Marxists recognize he was the first to consciously apply. Apply to what?
To the changing of society. That's what Hegel really did. He figured out how to take this
for Kant. It's really a philosophical endeavor. It's something that's going on in the realm of
philosophy. It's something like what even maybe Socrates written down by Plato would have been
engaging. But it's really an article of philosophy, and it's a very useful one. We even talk about
this positively and how to have impossible conversations. Peter and I do the dialectic
of Hegel and Fichte, we mentioned. But really, it's Kant and Fichte. We really should have taken a
look at this more closely philosophically speaking, because theirs was a philosophical idea where we
can compare ideas against one another and find the flaws and try to figure out what we're missing
and reach a better understanding. And there is a conversational approach that philosophers
frequently use to improve their ideas. You can find that kind of referred to in the Bible under
iron sharpens iron. That's kind of a dialectical process that's abstract. It's a philosophical
endeavor. Well, on the other hand, Hegel had this idea that we're going to use this to create a
better society. We're going to change society using the dialectic by studying the ideas and the
shape of the state and the society itself and the spirit that it generates. So it's not just
philosophical inquiry anymore. He figures out how to apply it. So Hegel brings the laws of
dialectic into the world of application. So the beginning of praxis happens with Hegel.
The dialectical praxis, as it were, Marx goes on to name this after having adopted it and done
a number of things with it that we're going to get to. So central to all of Marxism then is this
dialectic and central to all of the left since Marx is Marxism. So the dialectic flies as the
operating system underwriting everything that's going on with the left over the last, I don't know,
200 years. So taking from marxist.org, we continue the quote Engels and Marx both on this idea.
So Engels wrote, they say in his review of Marx's, the critique of political economy,
this is Engels speaking or writing. The Hegelian method he writes, on the other hand, was in its
existing form quite inapplicable. So for Marx and Engels, who were creating communism, it wasn't
good enough. Even the now applied form of the dialectic is still quite inapplicable because,
as we'll see, he was too mystical. It was essentially idealist. This is back to Engels.
And the main point in this case was the elaboration of a world outlook that was more materialist than
any previous one. Hegel's method took as its point of departure pure thought, whereas here the
starting point was to be inexorable facts. So this is him describing the difference between
Marxist communism versus Hegelian dialectic. We're no longer going to engage in the realm of
pure thought. We're going to move into the realm of inexorable facts. Engels continues,
a method which, according to its own admission, quote, came from nothing through nothing to nothing
he's quoting Hegel in The Science of Logic, part one, section two. He says, this was by no means
appropriate here in this form. Here is to Marxism, to the political economy. Nevertheless,
all of the available logical material, of all the available logical material Engels writes,
it was the only piece which could be used at least as a starting point. So Hegel becomes a
starting point for what Marx wanted to do. It had not been criticized or overcome. Now one of the
opponents of the great dialectician had been able to make a breach in its proud structure. It fell
into oblivion because the Hegelian school had not the slightest notion of what to do with it. The
Hegelian school would be the young Hegelians here. It was therefore above all necessary to subject
the Hegelian method to thoroughgoing criticism. What distinguished Hegel's thought, Engels continues,
from that of all other philosophers, was the tremendous sense of the historical upon which
it was based. Abstract and idealist, though it was in form, yet the development of his thoughts
always proceeded parallel with the development of world history, and the latter is really meant
to be only the test of the former. In other words, Hegel's view was very historicist. He believed
that history had a trajectory, history had a telos, and if you don't understand how history is
moving, you don't really understand what's going on. And the dialectic is actually for Hegel the
thing that is moving history. So Engels continues, if thereby the real relation was inverted and stood
on its head, nevertheless the real content entered everywhere into the philosophy. All the more so
since Hegel, in contrast to his disciples, did not parade ignorance but was one of the finest
intellects of all time. He was the first who attempted to show a development and inner coherence
in history, so this historicism is very important. And while today, much in his philosophy of history
may seem peculiar to us, yet the grandeur of his fundamental outlook is admirable even today,
whether one makes comparison with his predecessors or to be sure with anyone who, since his time,
is indulged in general reflections concerning history. Everywhere in his phenomenology,
aesthetics, history of philosophy, this magnificent conception of history prevails,
and everywhere the material is treated historically in a definite, even if abstractly
distorted, interconnection with history. So when I've said before, by the way, that critical
theories only kind of concentrate themselves, you see this happening here. Engels is talking about
needing, by commenting on Marx, is saying that what we need to do is take Hegel and concentrate
him even further through critique. The critical theory that's emerging will eventually be named
critical theory several decades later, almost a century later, but not quite,
it needs to be concentrated through more and more critique. The dialectic has to be applied
to the dialectic, in a sense. So Engels wraps up by writing this epic-making conception of
history. He's very taken with the historicism of Hegel, which of course is central to Marx's
philosophy as well. And to Marxism, this epic-making conception of history was the direct theoretical
premise for the new materialist outlook, so dialectical materialism that Marx was forwarding.
And this alone, I guess this provides a typo, this alone provides a connecting point for the
logical method too. Since this forgotten dialectics has led to such results, even from the standpoint
of pure thinking and had in addition so easily settled accounts with all preceding logic and
metaphysics, there must be at any rate, there must at any rate have been more to it than sophistry
and hair splitting, which of course Schopenhauer would have viciously criticized it as just a
bunch of sophistry, because it is. But the criticism of his method Engel finally writes,
with all of its official philosophy, had thought shy of and still does, was no trifle.
He's a big fan of the historicism. He thinks that Hegel brought forth very important ideas.
The dialectic is a very important one, but it wasn't correct in its formulation. He says
something about if it's standing on its head, it's going to have to be righted. Of course,
that's exactly what Marx had written. Marx later wrote, in fact, as this is still quoting from
marxist.org, in his preface to the second edition of Capital Volume 1, Marx writes,
my dialectic method is not only different from the Hegelian, but is its direct opposite. So abstract
meets negative. Right. To Hegel, the life process of the human brain, i.e. the process of thinking,
which under the name of the idea, he even transforms into an independent subject,
is the demiurgeous of the real world. And the real world is only the external phenomenal form of the
idea. So just to summarize what that means, for Hegel, there's the idea, which is what's going
on for real, because he's an idealist, and then the world becomes an image of the idea.
And so Marx is like, that's upside down. What we have to actually look at is we have to look at
the real world and go from there. So he writes, with me, on the contrary, the ideal is nothing
else than the material world reflected by the human mind and translated into forms of thought.
Marx is probably right on this. The mystification which dialectic suffers in Hegel's hands by no
means prevents him from being the first to present its general form of working in a comprehensive
and conscious manner. With him, it is standing on its head. It must be turned right side up again
if you would discover the rational kernel within the mystical shell. And so the dialectic becomes
obviously central, but the Marxists are not happy. Marx and Engels, specifically not the Marxists,
are not happy with how it's been formulated. They say that by focusing on the ideal rather than
the material, they get it upside down. Of course, as I pointed out, we see the structure of Hegel's
dialectic being applied to Hegel's dialectic, where Hegel's dialectic is framed as the abstract,
just as Hegel did to Kant's formulation of the dialectic. And now it has to be made
more material. It's negation. It has to mean it's negative, which is where Marx says,
with me on the contrary, it's exactly the opposite. So we have abstract meaning negation,
and so the concrete that's going to come out of this is going to be dialectical materialism for
Marx. And so we see the dialectic turning on the dialectic and creating a new view that's supposed
to be the progression of history. And this is being reflected and it's being written and shared.
This is the entry for Hegel on today's marxist.org website. So jumping entries to give you more
insight, we got to understand the dialectic. That's the goal right now because I want you
to understand that the dialectic has been the operating system of the left. It has been central
to Engel, central to Marx, central to Hegel. Fauerbach was the one who tutored Marx and
made him materialist in the first place as a Young Hegelian. So we've got this Hegel to Young
Hegelian to Marx chain, where the dialectic is evolving through dialectical means. The operating
system is so central to the left's thought that the operating system of the left is operating on
itself to evolve itself. So we now have Hegel having applied the dialectic to Kant's dialectic,
and we have Marx and Engel's applying the dialectic to Hegel's dialectic to receive,
to get to dialectical materialism, which is the essence of Marxism. And so here we have,
as we read in the Critical Race Three book, and so the dialectic progresses. I told you there's a
very important little sentence that you wouldn't normally care about when you read that. So now
to go into the dialectic entry itself on Marxist.org, what did they write? They write,
it was Hegel who was able to sum up this picture of universal interconnection and mutability of
things in a system of logic, which is the foundation of what we today call dialectics.
As Engels put it, so they quote Engels here, quote, the whole world, natural historical
intellectual, is represented as a process, that is, as in constant motion change,
transformation, development. And the attempt is made to trace out the internal connection
that makes a continuous whole of all of this movement and development.
They go on to write, this is Marxist.org again, that's the end of how Engels put it. It was in the
decade after Hegel's death in the 1840s, when Hegel's popularity was at its peak in Germany,
then Marx and Engels met and worked out the foundations of their critique of bourgeois
society. Hegel's radical young followers, there's our young Hegelians, had in their hands a powerful
critical tool, the dialectic, with which they ruthlessly criticized Christianity, the dominant
doctrine of the day. This is, we'll see something that Hegel was actually interested in as well.
He wanted to reestablish a Fulcish German religion that escaped the Orientalism of Christianity,
which he felt had been foisted upon Germany, kind of inappropriately. Well, the young Hegelians
really felt this way, and they ruthlessly criticized Christianity using the dialectic.
So, to carry on, however, one of these young Hegelians, Ludwig Faurbach, pointed out that
the Holy Family was after all only a heavenly image of the earthly family,
and said that by criticizing theology with philosophy the young Hegelians were only doing
the same as the Christians. Hegel's absolute idea was just another name for God. For Faurbach,
ideas were a reflection of the material world, and he held it to be ridiculous that an idea could
determine the world. Faurbach had declared himself a materialist. Marx and Engels began as supporters
of Faurbach. However, very soon they took up an opposition to Faurbach to restore the Hegelian
dialectic which had been abandoned by Faurbach. Remember, this is Marxist.org summarizing the
history of the dialectic for us here, and to free it from the rigidity of the idealistic Hegelian
system in place to method on a materialist basis. So, you see, it is the dialectic being applied to
the dialectic itself. Kind of amazing. So, Hegel, they quote, was an idealist to him. The thoughts
within his brain were not the more or less abstract pictures of actual things and processes, but
conversely, the things in their evolution were only the realized pictures of the idea,
existing somewhere from eternity before the world was. This way of thinking turned everything
upside down and completely reversed the actual connection of things in the world.
Thus, for Marx and Engels, thoughts were not passive and independent reflections of the material
world, we're still reading from Marxist.org by the way, but products of human labor,
and the contradictory nature of our thoughts had their origin in the contradictions within human
society. This meant that dialectics was not something imposed on to the world from outside,
which could be discovered by the activity of pure reason, but was a product of human labor
changing the world. Its form was changed and developed by people, and could only be understood
by the practical struggle to overcome these contradictions, not just in thought, but in
practice. So, again, I make the claim, Hegel puts forth this dialectic, which he has
dialectically derived from Kant, and via the vehicle of the Young Hegelians, we now have
Marx and Engels trying to turn this materialist, and they actually are in fact dropping in a
dialectic on the dialectic again, and transforming it into something else. And the thing that comes
out of this is the dialectical materialism, which Marx said stands Hegel on his head. So,
I think we have now firmly established the line of the dialectic from Hegel to the Young
Hegelians to Marx and Marxism, and the Marxists themselves obviously still support this because
they write about this in this particular way on their website today. So, this I think line has
been that the operating system of the left up from Hegel to Marx is dialectic, and it in fact takes
the dialectic to concentrate the dialectic into a form that becomes Marxism, which is the dialectically
enhanced dialectic. So, the operating system is almost reflexive in the sense that it concentrates
itself, and this is where Marxism comes from. And again, it has to be stressed that the entire
operating system of the left from the 1840s and 50s, when Marx and Engels start writing this stuff
down, Marxism starts to become a thing, especially following the Russian Revolution in 1917, the
entire operating system of the left really becomes Marxist up through probably the 1960s,
when finally the failures of communism become undeniable, when finally Khrushchev comes out
and speaks and reveals as the premier of the Soviet Union how horrible Stalin's regime was,
how opposite to what people claimed it was, what Stalin claimed it was, what Walter Duranty at the
New York Times claimed it was, the propagandist at the Pulitzer Prize, kind of like Nikol Hanna
Jones today. So, I think we've established that far. Well, it turns out that this, even though we
have this kind of disillusionment with Marxism in the 1920s, we have this frustration among many
communists that the Russian Revolution worked, many Marxists, but no other revolutions are working,
the Hungarian Revolution failed, no other revolutions are sparking, Marx's prediction
that they would happen in big industrial centers like London and New York and Los Angeles and
Chicago and Berlin isn't coming to pass. It's only in BFE peasant Russia that it's happened.
It tried in Hungary, but Hungary couldn't do it. Something is wrong and the Neo-Marxists come up
with a new theory. Well, the Neo-Marxists are very interested in the dialectic and they in fact make
it central to the project. They name it all the time. They talk about all the time titles of their
books include, for example, the dialectic of enlightenment. Critical theory is in fact the
application of the precise dialectic that's now been dialectically moved again from where Marx was.
In fact, it's been said that the critical theorists turned, where Marx said that Hegel was standing
on his head, they put Hegel back up right because Marx is actually the one who turned him upside
down by making it too materialist and not realistic enough to help people actually operate.
They didn't take it back to the idea as Hegel did. They took it into the realm of culture.
That's why they're often called cultural Marxists, but it'd be more accurate, I think,
to call them cultural Hegelians. But at any rate, or dialectical culturalists or something,
cultural dialecticists or something like this. So they're not applying it in the Kantian sense
that's been dialecticized into the Hegelian sense. They're not applying it in the strict Hegelian
sense that's been dialecticized into dialectical materialism and Marxism, and they no longer
believe in that. And so they're now criticizing that. They're bringing the critique to Marxism
itself, and they're putting it into the realm of culture. And by doing so, they're now doing it in
this new way where the dialectic has applied to the dialectic repeatedly to come up with this new
thing. But they're also becoming much more politically activated, again, like the young
Hegelians were. And so they're kind of dipping back to when Marx was his most young Hegelian in his
very early writings. Some neo-Marxist critiques suggest that Marx lost his way while writing
Kapital. Communist Manifesto was better. But by the time he's getting in his early letters are best,
and when he started getting into writing things like Kapital, he was already kind of off his
rocker. He'd gone too far smelling his own farts, if you will, and they got it wrong. So they wanted
to put this Hegel back into Marx, but without making the same mistakes where Marx had already,
to them, rightly critiqued Hegel. So this was kind of one of their big projects. Of course,
they also wanted to work Freud in, also wanted to work social science in, and some other things.
But they also wanted to figure out how to attack culture, specifically having decided,
following people like Gramsci, following people like George Lucca, that culture somehow upholds
society and prevents these revolutions to the end of history, to the utopia, to communism, really.
And so it's a very politically activated sense for the Neo-Marxists in a very different way.
But again, we're seeing, my case that I'm trying to make is this is a fundamental operating system
of leftism. It's what's driving their vehicle. It's what makes their computer work, if you want to
stick with operating system metaphor, I guess. This is how the left thinks. It's how it moves.
It's how it achieves its goals. And so it must be understood if you want to understand what's
happening in the world today with this blossoming of absolutely insane woke leftism, which I'm
telling you is the last, the most recent manifestation, I should say, hopefully the last, but the most
recent manifestation of this crappy line of thought, this crappy religion, as it's come down for the
last 200 years, ultimately from the metaphysics of Hegel, which we'll get to a bit further down.
So to convince you just how central the dialectic is to the process of the Neo-Marxists and to show
you how they use it, I'm going to quote a number of examples from them. So Max Horkheimer,
the first chair of the Frankfurt School, the Institute for Social Research,
writes in traditional and critical theory where the idea of critical theory is defined for the
first time. He writes in the following pages, this is actually in a footnote, this activity,
which is what he's talking about in terms of his methodology, critical theory, the following pages,
this activity is called critical activity. This actually comes from Marx, by the way,
he didn't make up this term. You could go all the way back to the critique of pure reason or whatever
you want to do with Kant, whatever you want to say, but the point is actually that Marx had
developed something he called the critical philosophy and the critical activity comes out
of the critical philosophy and for Marx that meant the ruthless criticism of everything that exists,
largely in order to tear it down and make room for his own vision that he was imagining into the
world. So Horkheimer's written in the following pages, this activity is called critical activity,
the term is used here less in the sense it has in the idealist critique of pure reason, so not
Kant, than in the sense that it has in the dialectical critique of political economy, so Hegel.
In particular, though, political economy was that phrase we saw from Marx describing political
economy that Engels was commenting on when I read from earlier. So we're talking about Hegel
through Marx, it points to an essential aspect of the dialectical theory of society, Horkheimer
concludes. So Horkheimer, you know, first leader of the Frankfurt School, the Institute for Social
Research at Goethe University, that is really where critical theory comes from, it was developed,
this is the seat of neo-Marxism. This actually arose when he, Horkheimer, I mean, in conversation
with some others envisioned the idea of creating for the critical left a great analysis and eventually
book on the dialectic that would restore something of Hegel from Marx and Marx's failures were critical
to understanding the tasks, we had to criticize Marx, we have to do the dialectic to Marx's
dialectically derived dialectical materialism, which was derived from Hegel's dialectic at this
point. And so he produces eventually 1944-1947, this book that I mentioned a minute ago with Theodore
Adorno, another major neo-Marxist called The Dialectic of Enlightenment, which is considered to be the
real comprehensive treatment of critical theory, or in other words, the first real statement of
neo-Marxism and what neo-Marxism about, the whole book is titled The Dialectic of Enlightenment,
where they're trying to explain that the Enlightenment unleashes its own dialectic that turns
reason into unreason, it turns rationality into irrationality. So I'll read a little bit
around and from this book, in The Dialectic of Enlightenment, Horkheimer and Adorno make the
case in the words of one of its, the editor of one of its editions, a philosophical fragments
edition, which happens to be one that I have, the editor's name is Gunslyn Noor, if I'm pronouncing
that right, or it's an afterward where he describes what's going on with The Dialectic of Enlightenment,
and he writes, the self-destruction of Western reason is seen to be grounded in an historical
and fateful dialectic of the domination of external nature, internal nature, and society.
Enlightenment, which split these spheres apart, is traced back to its mythical roots.
Enlightenment and myth are not seen therefore as irreconcilable opposites, but as dialectically
mediated qualities of both real and intellectual life. As they write in the book, myth is already
Enlightenment and Enlightenment reverts to mythology. This paradox is the fundamental thesis
of the book, meaning dialectic of Enlightenment. Reason, Noor writes, reason appears as inextricably
entangled with domination. Since the beginnings of history, liberation from the compulsions of
external nature has been achieved only by introducing a power relationship of second degree.
Both the repression of the internal nature of human drives, that was very important to
Markuza in particular, and social domination are already at work in myth. Finally, fascism in the
modern culture industry are the forms taken by a return of repressed nature, so you can hear the
Freudian aspects being worked in as well. In the service of an advancing rationalization of
instrumental thought modeled on the domination of nature and serving its purposes, enlightened
reason is progressively hollowed out until it reverts to the new mythology of a resurrected
relationship to nature, to violence. This is what the dialectic of Enlightenment is arguing,
that's what the editor is writing here. This theme he writes is summed up in the opening
sentences of the book. Enlightenment understood in the widest sense as the advance of thought has
always aimed at liberating human beings from fear and installing them as masters, yet the whole
enlightened earth is radiant with triumphant calamity. So he's saying that the Enlightenment
has devolved into domination. Reason has become a tool of domination. You can see the precursors
that postmodernism is going to be thinking similar things already here in 44 and 47 from these guys
and these Neo-Marsists. I guess you could say that this book culminates very near the end
and kind of a cheerless proclamation is his statement of thesis really. In the progress of
industrial society, which is supposed to have conjured away the law of increasing misery,
it had itself brought into being the concept would justify the whole, the human being as a person,
as a bearer of reason is going under. The dialectic of Enlightenment is culminating
objectively in madness. So rationality becomes irrationality by the dialectic of Enlightenment.
And of course, that's where you're going to have a thesis meeting its antithesis,
rationality is becoming irrationality. And so a synthesis that escapes this is what's going to
be needed. And that's really what they're calling for in critical theory is framed as the tool to
do it. That's the purpose of this book, dialectic of Enlightenment. So the Neo-Marsists are completely
on board with the concept of dialectic. Again, the Neo-Marsists are going to become the things
that lead up to Herbert Marcuse. Herbert Marcuse is going to become the father of the new left,
which is supposed to take over where the old left, which is the Marxists left off. And we already
see this trajectory of relying still on that operating system of the dialectic. And so when
we turn to Marcuse, it's no surprise that we see him talking about the dialectic all the time.
When we read, for example, Herbert Marcuse in One Dimensional Man, which he wrote in 1964,
this being his most popular and famous book sold 300 plus thousand copies in the first year
from what I understand. So we're talking about an absolute intellectual rock star,
absolutely hugely influential. This laid the groundwork for the new, for the new left that
emerged during the Vietnam War into a new era and started with hippies and civil rights and
turned into eventually what we're dealing with today in the woke. And what Marcuse writes in
One Dimensional Man writing in 1964 is dialectical thought understands the critical tension between
is and ought, first as an ontological condition pertaining to the structure of being itself.
However, the recognition of this state of being, its theory, extends from the beginning a concrete
practice, intends from the beginning a concrete practice. So what he's saying is that we have
to understand through the analysis the critical tension between is and ought, between what is,
what the world actually is, and what it ought to be. That's that normative vision of a perfected
society. And this is something very important. Dialectical thought takes this as an ontological
condition that pertains to the structure of being itself. That's what he says. However,
he writes, the recognition of this state of being, its theory, intends from the beginning
a concrete practice. So you see this language of Hegel. We have the abstract meaning the negative,
and it's negative, and resulting in a concrete practice. In other words, activism that's going
to lead us to this new multi-dimensional, for him, two-dimensional analysis that's going to use
critical theory in particular to achieve what it's trying to do. It's going to have is and ought,
not just is as its analytical mode, two-dimensional, not one-dimensional. There's more to the
one-dimensional metaphor, but we'll leave it at that. So this dialectical thing is the essence
of critical theory. And so even from, we had up to Marx, no question, he called his project
the dialectical materialism, right? So up to Marx, there's no question that the dialectic of Hegel,
derived from Hegel, I should say, through the dialectical process itself, is the operating system
of the old left. Well, with Markuza, we have the birth of the new left, and that also is going to
rely upon this dialectic. He mentions the dialectic repeatedly in all of his works. So with Markuza
pushing it this way, it's no longer just going to be central to the old left and whatever remnant
goes forward out of the death of the falling of the various communist regimes, the horrors of
communism, crisis of faith and communism that arose from most, but not all Marxists at the time.
So not only the remnant of the old left and all of the old left leading back to
the old Marxists, but also to the new left that arose in its wake, largely starting in the years
leading up to and then launching off during the Vietnam War. So what does this look like in practice?
What does this dialectic of the new left look like in practice? So we turn back to Markuza.
You can look at this a couple of examples from Markuza's writing again in One-Dimensional Man.
He writes, the laws of thought are laws of reality or rather become the laws of reality
if thought understands the truth of immediate experience as the appearance of another truth,
which is that of the true forms of reality of the ideas. Thus there is contradiction rather
than correspondence between the dialectical thought and the given reality. The true judgment
judges this reality not on its own terms, but in terms which envision its subversion,
and in this subversion reality comes into its own truth. So Markuza is recommending a very subversive
approach and application. The dialectic becomes a subversive activity. It's something that we're
going to get in and we're going to get inside and do kind of undermining that which exists
by confronting that which is with its negations. And so thesis is going to meet antithesis in a
subversive way and it's going to force us to look for, probably force us to look for some
synthesis or at least to tear. Remember earlier when we read from the essay on liberation,
it's going to force us to start tearing away the constructs of current society so the seed of the
perfect society can blossom. This is Markusian thought at this point and it requires that
multi-dimensional or two-dimensional at least thought that he's speaking about in One-Dimensional
Man. So we can turn to more concrete examples of this in practice from Markuza because Markuza
is really paradigmatic of the post-war, post-war war two I should say, critical theory school that
inspired the black feminists who we'll talk about momentarily, kind of the second generation
critical theory that then becomes the roadmap to developing the woke that we live in today.
So in Repressive Tolerance, which I've read in full in another podcast,
four episodes, Herbert Markuza writes, according to a dialectical proposition,
it is the whole which determines the truth. So again, we're seeing this Hegelian idea that
the whole is you have to understand the whole to understand the particulars. This is a kind of
Hegelian metaphysical axiom and the dialectic is how you're going to approach doing this. Again,
we're talking about this being the operating system of leftism. So we're looking at new
leftism, its emergence from Markuza here in Repressive Tolerance. It says this is not in
the sense that the whole is prior or superior to its parts, but in the sense that its structure
and function determine every particular condition and relation. This is pure Hegelianism. You can't
understand the particulars without understanding the whole. So the whole is the thing you're trying to
extract from the particulars is the same idea of peeling away the problems of society so that the
the utopian society can emerge so that the seed of the perfect society can blossom, if you will,
or bloom. So he writes, thus within a repressive society, even progressive movements threaten
to turn into their opposite to the degree to which they accept the rules of the game. Generally,
the function and value of tolerance depend on the equality prevalent in the society in which
tolerance is practiced. Tolerance itself stands subject to overriding criteria. Its range and
its limits cannot be defined in terms of the respective society. So really what he's arguing
for in Repressive Tolerance is the dialectical treatment of tolerance, where tolerance is going
to be turned into intolerance. Tolerance is going to meet intolerance, thesis meets
antithesis into the synthesis is going to be a repressive tolerance or what he calls a discriminating
tolerance or a liberating tolerance. Tolerance is not actually tolerant at all, but that's going
to lead us toward a new and better liberated future. So thesis is tolerance, antithesis is
intolerance, synthesis is repressive tolerance, or this discriminating, liberating tolerance.
And so now tolerance gets the dialectic applied to it, and now you get this totally tilted playing
field that I said is the logic of the world we live in today, the logic of the left is repressive
tolerance, which ultimately its basic thesis is that conservatives must be censored. In fact,
they must be pre-censored. It's not enough that they lose their freedom of speech. They have to
lose the freedom to even think the thought by having their ideas pre-censored before they
can even enter their minds. So you're not talking just about the freedom of speech,
talking about cognitive liberty being put under threat by repressive tolerance.
And this is the product of, again, the point that I'm trying to make is that in the Neo-Marxist
era, we're here in the 1965 for this essay, in the Neo-Marxist era, we are now talking about
the dialectic being still central. It's still the operating system. We're doing the dialectic
on the dialectic. We're doing the dialectic on tolerance. We're doing the dialectic on other
ideas. We'll see in a second, democratic forms are going to be pulled into this. And so the
dialectic is still the operating system of everything that's going on through the left.
The old left had it. The new left is adopting it. So in his essay on liberation from 1969,
Marcuse writes dialectics of democracy. That's the heading, right? The dialectics of democracy.
This is how dialectics apply in democracy. If democracy, he writes, means self-government to
free people with justice for all, then the realization of democracy would presuppose
abolition of the existing pseudo-democracy. So we have thesis. We live in a democracy,
or we want democracy. Thesis. This is the democracy. Antithesis. It's a pseudo-democracy
because there are actually systems of power, right? There are systems of power with justice for
all. Well, not everybody's getting justice. So we don't live in a democracy, thesis. We live in a
pseudo-democracy, antithesis. So we're going to need a synthesis of this. And he writes,
in the dynamic of corporate capitalism, this is where he's describing the pseudo-democracy, I think,
the fight for democracy thus tends to assume anti-democratic forms and to the extent to which
the democratic decisions are made in parliaments on all levels, the opposition will tend to become
extra-parliamentary. The movement to extend constitutionally professed rights and liberties
to the daily life of the oppressed minorities, even the movement to preserve existing rights
and liberties will become subversive to the degree to which it will meet the stiffening
resistance of the majority against an exaggerated interpretation and application of equality
and justice. This is very similar to what we're seeing today. This logic is playing out exactly
right now under these so-called equity and racial and other social justice movements.
So what do we have here? Democracy is the thesis. Thesis-democracy, antithesis. Pseudo-democracy,
because of systemic power dynamics, the synthesis is going to be what Marcuse
elsewhere calls ideal democracy. The communists also refer to ideal democracy. If you don't know,
the communists position themselves as ideal democracy because, for them, if everybody's
not perfectly equal, if everybody's not got exactly the same amount of money, everybody's
got not exactly the same amount of opportunity, exactly the same amount of access, you can have
true democracy because certain people aren't going to be able to speak up as much. They're not
going to be able to get to the polls as readily. They're not going to have the same ability
to participate or the same access. So it's not a true democracy until there's perfect equity.
And so you can actually see here how they subvert language, right? The word democracy
meets this argument that we're going to call its antithesis. We know it's really a pseudo
democracy because there's systemic power. And so we have the synthesis of an ideal democracy,
which has an adjective in front of it, but the adjective gets dropped so that when these people
speak of democracy, they later or tolerance, they will later mean not liberating or discriminating
tolerance necessarily, or sorry, not regular tolerance, but liberating or discriminating
tolerance. And you won't actually know which one for sure. And here we have the word democracy
being subverted into this ideal democracy, which presupposes that we're in a communist-like
situation before it counts. And this is how their language games are constructed.
If you want to understand why they have so much doublespeak, this is where it comes from.
But again, my point so far, I'm dropping a lot of extra nuggets, point so far is to convince
you, and I think I have done so, that indeed the neo-Marxists are certainly going to have been tied
up with this idea of the dialectic. And the dialectic is being applied to the dialectic again,
and it's kind of a reflexive pattern that concentrates it. And so through, we got Hegel now,
leading into the young Hegelians, and the young Hegelians leading into Marx, and the Marx leading
into the Marxists, and the Marxists leading into like including Lenin, and the Marxists leading
into the neo-Marxists. And the constant thread is still in this dialectical engine, which even
gets applied to itself to create its new iteration. So the overarching project, or the underlying
operating system of leftism for the past 200 years, I'm going to keep repeating it, has been
the dialectic. Now, I want to take a quick diversion into the postmodernists. I'm not going
to develop this very far. But I also have to touch on one neo-Marxist here, Theodor Adorno.
So as for the postmodernists, I'm Theodor Adorno, which you can read in his 1966 book called,
So again, now 1966, we're getting a lot later. Postmodernism is actually emerging in France
already at this point. In 1966, Adorno writes his book, Negative Dialectics. And in both of
these cases, postmodernism and in my reading of Negative Dialectics, it seems to be the case that
we have gone, these guys have actually gone post-Hegelian. The neo-Marxists, or sorry,
where the critical theorists are normally called neo-Marxists, the postmodernists are usually
described as post-Marxists. In other words, they've given up on Marxism. They retain much of the same
underlying ethos, but they don't believe that it works and they become kind of negative and
despairing and they create kind of an upside down world version of it that just kind of is
cynical and all of this. Well, it seems that with the publishing of Negative Dialectics,
which is extraordinarily critical of Hegel, it turns out the postmodernists were also quite
critical of Hegel. I think Foucault is critical of Hegel and certainly being much more Nietzschean
in his approach, but I think Derrida, if I'm not mistaken, although I'd have to look that up again,
is very critical of Hegel. We certainly see Liotard being critical of Hegel as well in
the postmodern condition. We see this kind of shift with some of these thinkers, postmodernists
in particular, but also Adorno and Negative Dialectics to a post-Hegelian structure. Now,
like I just said, to go post means to have retained the essential core of what's going on,
of the approach. While deciding that the specific projects that had been launched on that core
must have been being done terribly incorrectly and had failed, so you abandon the specifics while
retaining the essential core. So in this sense, both the later writings of Adorno getting into the
1960s and the postmodernists seem very much like they're anti-Hegel on a superficial writing,
but they're not really that. They're post-Hegelian. They're mostly despairing of the idea of the
synthetic project, but they're not despairing of the idea, if you read Negative Dialectic,
of the collision of thesis and antithesis. If you read the ideas like Derrida's deconstruction,
or even Foucault's ideas where you're going to expose the contradictions and the progress of
history, or the contradictions of progress, or the contradictions of the idea of calling
anything knowledge at all, these are still very thesis-antithesis-colliding projects. The thing
is, these guys aren't looking for a synthesis. They aren't trying to do a final third step. They've
become post-Hegelian in that they've adopted the dialectical core, but abandoned the idea that
a synthesis is necessary. Adorno expresses this in Negative Dialectics. Derrida does so through
deconstruction, and the idea is really to get to particulars, rather than to come up with some
new synthetic whole. So synthesis for post-Hegelian thought, that's postmodernism, and the later
Adorno in Negative Dialectic is really a fool's errand for them. They think that's what's gone
wrong. That's why this has produced terrible results. This is why the Marxist projects failed.
The idea of trying to create a synthesis out of the dialectical process is a failure. So
for Adorno, we have to have a negative dialectic for Derrida. We just need to deconstruct.
So for them, it's better to just take things apart and leave them apart at the level of
particulars. It's not a very good example, but an example I've tried to give for this
in the past is, you know, I can go into my living room. It turns out I have a
very nice round kitchen table, and it has kind of four legs, and I have a small coffee table.
The kitchen table is wood. The coffee table is metal, as it turns out, and it has three legs,
and it's kind of shaped somewhat triangularly, but curved, like curvy triangle. And then I have
like a kitchen island thing that's also wood, but it obviously you can't get under it. It doesn't
have legs at all. It's like a block and has wheels under it. And so you could easily consider
those flat surfaces on top of all of these, one being round, one being this weird triangle, one
being almost perfectly square. Two of these are wood, one of them is metal. There are three different
heights. They're very different things. You could say, oh, well, they're tables. You could even use
the couch as a table. You could set things on it. You could lay things out. And so the idea of table
can be attacked by this idea that, well, these two things are very different from one another,
but we call them both table, or these three things are very different from one another. We
call them table. And just leave it. We don't have to call them tables. Leave it at this dining table,
this coffee table, and this kitchen island. Leave them at particulars. That's sort of the idea.
So the general thrust here is that the dialectic is, the general thrust of the dialectic is still
running. We're still going to collide ideas against their opposites, their antithesis,
their contradictions. They're negatives, really, in the Hegelian frame, but we're not going to try
to put the broken pieces back together. That's gone. They're in the despair, the pessimism,
the cynicism of being post-Hegelian, post-Marxist, or post-modernist. Adorno thinks he has the ticket.
The post-modernists are a little bit more negative. That's a big difference between them,
but it's difficult to actually tell if you read all of negative dialectic. There's no clear example.
There are just lots of very abstruse examples. I've read criticisms of negative dialectics
that it's impossible to understand what the negative dialectics is doing without reading the
entire book and comprehending it, and then you just have this idea of what it's doing.
So you don't have any concrete structures. That table thing might be BS.
As far as Foucault goes, as long as we're talking about post-modernist, he gives his usual critiques
for what it's worth, that the Hegelian approach might be good or bad. The dialectic might be good
or bad. I picked this up in the Foucault reader, and I'm trying to, I don't recall, I didn't write
down which of his essays or books it comes out of, but the Hegelian dialectical approach might be
good or bad, but the underlying engine of his project is still going to be Hegelian in that
it's trying to reveal the internal contradictions and ideas like progress, categories, science,
truth, knowledge, and then just kind of leave it at that because for Foucault, the idea was to
break down restrictions so that he could so-called expand potentialities. We see the same language
in Markusa as well, the idea of expanding the potential range of being human into achieving
liberation. So these are pretty consistent themes. They're ultimately Hegelian. The post-modern
left is like this despairing, broken, let's not even try to do anything positive with it,
whereas all of the positive projects that came out of the dialectic are in the synthetic aspect,
thesis, synthesis, then building a synthesis, and the post-modernists and even this later negative
dialectic adorno are kind of abandoning that project at this point in the late 60s, whereas
Markusa is still pretty into it, right, and Markusa really became the defining feature of the new
left, which means that again, from young Hegelian into Marxist old left into Markusian new left,
all of the leftists are still operating very strongly in this particular frame, this Hegelian
dialectical frame. So the dialectic is the operating system of leftism for the past 200
years. That's the point I really want to take home from this first half of what I'm talking about
with Hegel. I also have to make the case that this reliance on dialectic, and I'm telling you,
this is going to be long, there's a lot to this, this reliance on the dialectic appears in the
woke literature as well. So let's start with Patricia Hill Collins' landmark book in 1990,
Black Feminist Thought. We're going to see the dialectic invoked repeatedly. Remember also that
it appears in the Critical Race Theory book, right, and so the dialectic progresses. The bigger
thing gets resolved, so now we have to look at the smaller thing, so the dialectic progresses.
That's the theme there in the Critical Race Theory book. Well, here in 1990 in Black Feminist
Thought, which is a landmark book, it's not quite critical race theory, it's like the proto-critical
race theory. It is Black Feminism, and the link, by the way, to Black Feminism is that Herbert
Marcuse not only did he inspire much of the Black Liberationist movement to think in critical
theory ways, not only was his, or his ideas picked up by that, but they were particularly picked up
by the Black Feminists. The Black Feminists would have included as a thought leader Angela Davis,
who was the PhD student of Herbert Marcuse, and she was very, very influential in the development
of Black Feminist Thought, and Black Feminism comes into its fruit here. You can even find,
for example, Ibram Kendi praising Angela Davis explicitly in his bookstamps from the beginning,
which traces five thinkers, one of whom is Angela Davis, a very significant figure in the development
of woke thought. Here, right at the cusp of the birth of woke, 1990, in kind of the pinnacle book of
Black Feminist Thought, titled Black Feminist Thought, from Patricia Hill Collins,
gigantic figure in the field, we read, Black Feminism remains important because
U.S. Black women constitute an oppressed group. As a collectivity, U.S. Black women participate
in a dialectical relationship linking African American women's oppression and activism.
So oppression and activism have to be related dialectically. Dialectical relationships of
this sort mean that two parties are opposed and opposite. As long as Black women's subordination
within intersecting oppressions of race, class, gender, sexuality, and nation persists, Black
Feminism as an activist response to that oppression will remain needed. In similar fashion, the
overarching purpose of U.S. Black Feminist Thought is also to resist oppression, both its practices
and the ideas that justify it. If intersecting oppressions did not exist, Black Feminist Thought
and similar oppositional knowledges would be unnecessary. As a critical social theory,
Black Feminist Thought aims to empower African American women within the context of social
injustice sustained by intersecting oppressions. Since Black women cannot be fully empowered
unless intersecting oppressions themselves are eliminated, Black Feminist Thought supports
broad principles of social justice that transcend U.S. Black women's particular needs. Dialectical
relationships, dialectical thinking. Already present here, very core to understanding how
Black women as a collectivity, as a political group, are related to all the other axes of
oppression and how they're to understand their own oppression and how these oppressions bang up
against each other and compete against one another and clamor for attention. And the goal,
as we haven't talked about yet, but from Markuza, is to create solidarity. And that solidarity,
as we'll talk about a little bit more later, is to be affected through intersectionality. By the way,
the title of Patricia Hill Collins' next big book after Black Feminist Thought in 1990 was
Intersectionality. 1993, if I'm not mistaken, though I don't have it in front of me. So what
else does she write in Black Feminist Thought? This dialectic of oppression and activism,
the tension between the suppression of African American women's ideas and our intellectual
activism in the face of that suppression, constitutes the politics of US Black feminist
thought. The dialectics of oppression and activism constitutes the politics of US Black feminist
thought. More important, understanding this dialectical relationship is critical in assessing
how US Black feminist thought, its core themes, epistemological significance, and connections
to domestic and transnational Black feminist practice is fundamentally embedded in a political
context that has challenged its very right to exist. So dialectic, it is the politics. The
dialectic of oppression and activism constitutes the politics of US Black feminist thought.
I'm telling you, it's the operating system upon which all of this stuff is based. The critical
race theory comes out of Black feminism. Hello. Okay, so what else does she write in Black Feminist
Thought? I have several quotes from this. Historically, while they often disagreed on its
expression, some US Black women were profoundly reformist, while more radical thinkers bordered
on the revolutionary. African American women intellectuals, who were nurtured in social
conditions of racial segregation, strove to develop Black feminist thought as critical social
theory. Regardless of, remember that's critical theory, right? That's critical theory, which is
based in the dialectic, because we just heard that from Horkheimer just a minute ago. Regardless
of social class and other differences among US Black women, all were in some way affected by
intersecting oppressions of race, gender, and class. The economic, political, and ideological
dimensions of US Black women's oppression suppressed the intellectual production of
individual Black feminist thinkers. At the same time, these same social conditions simultaneously
stimulated distinctive patterns of US Black women's activism that also influenced and was influenced
by individual Black women thinkers. Thus, the dialectic of oppression and activism characterizing
US Black women's experience with intersecting oppressions also influenced the ideas and actions
of Black women intellectuals. Dialectic, dialectic, dialectic. We're drawing a straight line now
that is the twist. That's why I shouldn't call it a straight line. It's like a twisting line,
twisting and concentrating line, from Hegel straight to Patricia Hill Collins, Black feminist
thought. The reason that that line is twisting and concentrating is because the dialectic is
being applied to the dialectical process as it goes. She writes again, as long as social justice
remains elusive for African American women, it is likely to evade US society overall. This is
always just asserted, by the way. They just say that if Black women don't have all of whatever
they want, then US society doesn't have it either. That's just an assertion that's core to critical
race theory. In this case, Black feminism, from which critical race theory sprung. What do you
think Kimberly Crenshaw was? Black feminist. Therefore, Collins writes, the need for Black
women's activism is most likely will persist. But while the dialectical relationship linking
oppression and activism remains, that's theory and practice, or in other words, praxis as its
synthesis, the changing organization of intersecting oppressions as well as the contours of activism
required for resistance demand a dynamic Black women's activism and an equally vigorous US Black
feminism. So theory and practice both have to be put into play. We're going to see that theory
and practical are very central to the way that Hegel thought about these things as well, and
dialectic had applied to it. And of course, Marx derived the idea of praxis, which is theory put
into practice from these same ideas. So the lines are very straight here. So one more from
Patricia Hill Collins. Thus far this volume, this is near the end of the book, has synthesized two
main approaches to power. One way of approaching power concerns the dialectical relationship
linking oppression and activism, where groups with greater power oppress those with lesser amounts.
Rather than seeing social change or lack of it as preordained and outside the realm of human
action, the notion of a dialectical relationship suggests that change results from human agency.
Because African American women remain relegated to the bottom of the social hierarchy from one
generation to the next, again just asserted, US Black women have a vested interest in opposing
oppression. This is not an intellectual issue for most African American women. It is a lived
reality, lived reality indeed. As long as Black women's oppression persists, so will the need for
Black women's activism. Moreover, dialectical analyses of power point out that when it comes to
social injustice, groups have competing interests that often generate conflict.
So Black feminism, one of the key intellectual roots of critical race theory, one of the key pillars
theories within critical social justice theory, dialectic. Its engine is dialectical. The dialectical
engine tracing all the way back to Hegel. This is again modified by Faurbach, modified by Marx,
modified by the Neo-Marx, just modified again by Marcuse, modified again into Black feminism
through dialectical processes at every single step. This is what we're seeing, the dialectical
engine, dialectical operating system of leftism, both old leftism, new leftism that's following
Marcuse and now woke leftism. So we can see the same reliance on dialectic in Bell Hooks' book.
Bell Hooks is a Black feminist as well. In 1984, she writes feminist theory from margin to center.
This is a very huge theme for them, margins to center. Kimberly Crenshaw's famous paper,
Mapping the Margins. What is Bell Hooks' right in 1984? Yet women need to know that ideas and
theories are important. And absolutely essential for envisioning and making a successful feminist
movement, one that will mobilize groups of people to transform this society. Ironically,
lack of knowledge about revolutionary politics leads women to see ideas and theories as unimportant.
In the chapter on dialectics and revolution, Grace Lee Boggs and James Boggs discuss the
importance of ideas to revolutionary activists. What do they write? Revolutionists seek to
change reality to make it better. Therefore, revolutionists not only need the revolutionary
philosophy of dialectics, they need a revolutionary ideology, a body of ideas, based on analyzing
the main contradictions of the particular society which they're trying to change,
projecting a vision of a higher form of reality in which this contradiction would be resolved
and relating this resolution to a social force or force is responsible for and capable of achieving
it. In other words, a critical theory that's like the definition of a critical theory right there.
How does it operate through a revolutionary philosophy of dialectics? So this is quoted
in Bell Hooks' book as support for the case that she's making that black feminists,
in particular, and feminists more in general, need to be thinking in terms of philosophies
and ideas if they're going to have a successful movement. They can't be anti-intellectuals,
she's writing. So the bogs go on as quoted in Bell Hooks. It is only after you have arrived at the
correct ideology that it makes sense to develop your revolutionary politics, i.e. the programs
necessary to mobilizing and organizing the revolutionary social forces. If your ideology
is wrong, that is misdirected or limited, then all of the most brilliant programs for militant
activity must be absolutely clear about this sequence from revolutionary philosophy to
revolutionary ideology to revolutionary politics. The dialectic is at the heart of this.
Bell Hooks, extremely influential, writing in 1984 about the centrality of the dialectic.
What he's described here is literally, literally the Hegelian dialectic, right? Did you catch it,
right? Read that sentence again. They need a revolutionary ideology that is a body of ideas
based on analyzing the main contradictions of the particular society. We're going to see that's
related to the Geist, which they are trying to change, projecting a vision of a higher form of
reality. So there's your ideas, the idealism, in which this contradiction would be resolved
and relating this resolution to a social force or forces responsible for and capable of achieving it.
As we'll see, Hegel is a great big statist. So we're going to see this kind of trinity
of the kind of the culture or the spirit of society giving rise to the idea and the relationship to
the ideas of society and the ideas and the relationship to the state and the state in its
relationship to, again, that spirit of society. There's a very Hegelian sentence that is Hegel.
That is Hegel quoted from two bogs in Bell Hooks's book in 1984. Bell Hooks being absolutely
instrumental to the rising of somewhat of critical history, but actually of inserting critical
race theory in Black feminist thought, which we just discussed from Collins, directly into
critical pedagogy into education after her book in 1994, Book Teaching to Transgress. So again,
the operating system is the dialectic and the dialectic derives from Hegel as concentrated by
Fauerbach Marx, various neo-Marxists, Marcuse, the Black feminists. And here we see it arising
quoted in his almost original form, frankly, in a call for revolutionary politics. It requires
a revolutionary dialectic and a perfect ideology in Bell Hooks, 1984. Just to give you another,
I mean, I've got several more examples we're going to read through. I'm sorry, I need you to
understand that this is really what's happening in the world today. If you want to understand the
woke, you have to understand the dialectic. Kimberly Crenshaw, the creator of intersectionality,
one of the founders of critical race theory, actually the person who named critical race theory
also thinks dialectically. This becomes very obvious in her chapter that's titled Unmasking,
Color Blindness in the Law, Lessons from the Formation of Critical Race Theory, that
is the third chapter in a volume that she edited in 2019, titled Seeing Race Again. What a wonderful
concept she's driving here, becoming racists. But Seeing Race Again is the title of the book,
2019 book. So she wrote this essay as a chapter for the book. And she writes in there, this essay
this is the beginning of the essay, revisits the history of how critical race theory, CRT,
emerged as an intellectual response to color blindness and the context of institutional
struggles over the scope of equality and the content of legal education. It exemplifies how
in the aftermath of a groundbreaking challenge to the social order, institutional actors from
across the political spectrum embraced a gradualist strategy of integration, premised on the assumption
that the colorblind meritocracy stood outside of the economic and racial power. The emergence and
continuing significance of CRT in relation to colorblind ideology is a reflection of the cross
institutional traveling of resistance, the conditions of possibility that seed insurgent
knowledge and the continuity of these dialectics in the contemporary era. So she's thinking
dialectically. So I don't want to keep belaboring this point, but since I mentioned with Bellhooks
especially, and it's so important with an education, that the idea of teaching this
dialect so we have this engine of the left, I've got it up through critical race theory and black
feminism now all the way back to Hegel through Marx, Faurbach, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera,
Alonio Marxist, Mercuzza, we see Adorno defect from it after he writes the dialectic of enlightenment
with Horkheimer. And then all the way with a straight line, Hegel to the young Hegelians,
those are first progressive in this line of thought becoming Marxist. So then the old left
arises out of that. The old left gives way to the new left. The new left is the neo Marxist
left under Mercuzza. And this new left is dialectically driven. And this new left gives rise
to the black feminism movement and these other radicalist movements that we're seeing now.
And they are dialectically driven all the way up to a book in 2019 where Kimberly Crenshaw,
the founder of critical race theory is saying that the dialectics is crucial to what she's
saying. And along the way we have Bell Hooks who inspired Kimberly Crenshaw, for example,
writing and quoting somebody who basically lays out the exact Hegelian vision in the modern day.
So this is all extremely important. We now have that this is the underlying operating system of
the left, I think is a continuous old left, new left, or young Hegelian really, to old left,
which is Marxism to new left, which is neo Marxism to woke left continuity. But it's also
crucial in education. This is how they teach it. This is what their goal is to teach children to
think dialectically because that's the engine of their worldview. That's how they think about the
world. So it is the heart of the critical pedagogy project, which is the critical theory applied
to both the theory of education and the contents of education. So the dominant mode of education
in the West today seeks to teach our children the Hegelian dialectical mode, because that's the
underlying operating system of how leftism operates in our society. And they have totally
dominated the institution of education, following Gramsci's indication that education is one of
the five pillars of culture that must be infiltrated and overturned from within. So here,
reading from Isaac Gottzman's The Critical Turn in Education, which was a book from 2015,
we talked about probably the most influential critical pedagogist, his name is Henry Giroux.
He writes, students argued Giroux, this is quoting Giroux, need to learn how to be able to move
outside of their own frame of reference so that they can question the legitimacy of a given fact,
concept, or issue. He wrote that in 1978. Now to Gottzman. Furthermore, he contended marshaling
the support of Marxist literary theorist Frederick Jamison. Students quote, this is quoting Giroux,
have to learn how to perceive the very essence of what they're examining by placing it critically
within a system of relationships that give it meaning. In other words, students must be taught
to think dialectically, rather than in an isolated and compartmentalized fashion. For Giroux,
it was important that contextualization of information be embedded in a pedagogy that
takes seriously the social relationships of the classroom. This goes way back in education, however.
You can read from John Dewey, who's a very progressive education reformer, very influential
in our current education system. He was in the late 19th century when he wrote in, again,
perfect Hegelian fashion, quote, the state is then the completed objective spirit. That's like
Brian Strait Hegel, the externalized reason of man. It reconciles the principle of law and liberty,
not by bringing some truce or external harmony between them, but by making the law, the whole
of the prevailing interest and controlling motive of the individual. We haven't really touched on
Hegel's statism yet, but that's going to be relevant. I just wanted to drop that in there,
because it's tied into critical education. Even going back more than 100 years,
so this is being written just before 1900, we have this idea that the Hegelian view of the state,
the completed objective spirit that's so freaking Hegelian, is Hegel's metaphysics.
The way that you get at that completed objective spirit, the externalized reason
of man is through the dialectic. We have the whole dialectical project here. There's a link,
by the way, not just, I mentioned Bill Hooks inserting critical race theory into critical
pedagogy. Critical pedagogy is rising up. There's another guy before who is very important,
but less influential than Jiru, before him named Michael Apple. Michael Apple, repeatedly,
if you read Gatzman, you'll find out that he repeatedly talks about the need for dialectic
and education. But then later, even today, even very recently, we can see the insertion of this
kind of dialectical line of thought, but important in Neomarxism, which we now know is based on the
dialectical thought into education. So we read from an Allison Bailey's paper, Tracking Privilege
Preserving Epistemic Pushback, which appeared in the classrooms or something, the exact title.
It was published in Hypatia in 2017, Hypatia being the leading feminist philosophy journal that
very much so dips into critical pedagogy. It was the target of two of our fake papers,
one of which was a critical pedagogy paper. But this brings very to the front that critical
pedagogy is based very deeply, also not just in Jiru's belief that the dialectic should be
brought into the classroom, but also that Neomarxism itself should be brought into the classroom.
What does she write in 2017, Allison Bailey? Quote, the critical thinking tradition is concerned
primarily with epistemic adequacy, which is a fancy way of saying knowing what you're talking
about. To be critical is to show good judgment and recognizing when arguments are faulty,
assertions lack evidence, truth claims appeal to unreliable sources or concepts are sloppily
crafted and applied. That's true. For critical thinkers, the problem is that people fail to
examine the assumptions, commitments, and logic of daily life. The basic problem is irrational,
illogical, and unexamined living. End quote. Well, if you read Markuza, you know what she's talking
about. She doesn't cite Markuza. She's not quoting Markuza there. But you're not living that unless
you're a critical theorist, according to Markuza. So unless you're approaching the world from critical
theory, you're stuck in irrational, illogical, unexamined living that fails to examine the
assumptions, commitments, and logic of daily life. You're caught up in his so-called heteronymous
interests that I've mentioned in many podcasts so far. Okay, so here's she's framing out that
critical thinking isn't really critical thinking, which is exactly what Markuza does in Neomarxism.
In this tradition, Bayley continues, sloppy claims can be identified and fixed by learning to apply
the tools of formal and informal logic correctly. Critical pedagogy begins from a different set
of assumptions rooted in the Neomarxian literature on critical theory, commonly associated with the
Frankfurt School. Not really hedging anything there, is she? Here, the critical learner is someone
who is empowered and motivated to seek justice and emancipation. That's what Markuza says.
Critical pedagogy regards the claims that students make in response to social justice issues,
not as propositions to be assessed for their truth value, but expressions of power that
function to re-inscribe and perpetuate social inequalities. Its mission is to teach students
ways of identifying and mapping how power shapes our understandings of the world. This is the first
step in toward resisting and transforming social injustices, in other words, the dialectic, where
theory has to be whited to practice to generate praxis. By interrogating the politics of knowledge
production, Bayley writes, this tradition also calls into question the uses of the accepted
critical thinking toolkit to determine epistemic adequacy, to extend Audre Lorde's classic metaphor,
not that classic, it was written in 1984, but anyway, the tools of the critical thinking tradition,
for example, validity, soundness, conceptual clarity, cannot dismantle the master's house,
they can temporarily beat the master at his own game, but they can never bring about any
enduring structural change. They fail because the critical thinkers toolkit is commonly invoked
in particular settings at particular times to reassert power. Those adept with the tools
often use them to restore an order that assures their comfort. They can be habitually invoked
to defend our epistemic home terrains. So critical pedagogy for her for Alison Bailey
is based on neo-Marxism, she echoes Marcusa virtually perfectly, and she's talking about
teaching people to think in terms of ways that are going to be emancipatory and empowering
in perfect line with the dialectical process outlined by Marcusa. So in education,
we see this again and again and again and again now under critical pedagogy. So we're not just
satisfied that the leftism isn't just satisfied, I should say to use the dialectical method as
its operating system, it must install that operating system in children, which is why I've
said repeatedly that the woke don't use education to indoctrinate, they use education to program
and reprogram. They're not teaching you to accept a particular doctrine uncritically,
although that is happening as well. They're teaching you to think in a particular way,
and that way is dialectically. Again, we heard that explicitly, not metaphorically, not anything
explicitly from Henry Giroux, considered the father of critical pedagogy, what he said is,
in other words, students must be taught to think dialectically. So that is the object here, that
is what's going on, and I could go on with this at length. Over and over and over again, quoting
from luminaries across this dialectical left, if you will, the inheritors of young Hegelian thought,
including Marx down through the neo-Marxist through the leading lights of critical race theory and
every other critical social justice theory today, and I could quote from them again and again and
again showing explicitly, not hedging a single word, that the dialectical mode of thought is how
they think about everything. It is their underlying operating system, it is the heart of their
interrelated worldviews, and it comes from Hegel, the first to consciously apply it in the words
of the Marxists on marxist.org. So a couple more quick points that finalize my case on this,
and then I'll move on to the metaphysical part, which is the second more difficult case to make.
I think I've really hammered this one in. First, recall that we began by reading
from the book, Critical Race Theory and Introduction, which ended with, and so the
dialectic progresses. I want to draw your attention back to that. So if you recall,
that little piece was framed out in terms of the so-called essentialism versus anti-essentialism
philosophical program, and I brought that up. I mentioned that that was important,
and it's the way the section in which that phrase appears is in a section in the book,
or is a section in the book, where it's analyzing how critical race theory interacts with the ideas
of essentialism versus anti-essentialism. But these two, essentialism and anti-essentialism,
are clearly thesis antithesis. It's thesis antithetical in its construction, essentialism
versus its negation anti-essentialism. So what then is the woke synthesis? It's forwarded,
say, by critical race theory. It's in the critical race theory book, but also by the other theories
of critical social justice. The answer is structural determinism. This is a very important
concept. I've talked about it in some other podcasts. I'm not going to elaborate on it too
much here, but it is the structure of society. The hypothesis, structural determinism, is the
doctrine, really, that the structure of society determines something like an essential lived
experience. It's not essentialist because it nevertheless hides within a social constructivist
mode of thought. So race, under critical race theory, is a social construct. So race can't be
essential to the person. So it dodges essentialism. But they claim that race, and this is explicitly
articulated by Crenshaw and many others, that race is sociopolitically imposed by the white
and the allegedly white supremacist and racist society, so that the lived experience of being a
particular race in that system becomes essential. So race is not essential in the sense that they
are social constructivists, thus anti-essentialist, but the experience of being a race in a particular
power structure where that race is imposed by that power structure does define what it means
to be that kind of a person, of that identity category. We hear that again and again in Black
Feminist Thought. We just heard it from Patricia Collins over and over and over again about Black
women. So your lived experience becomes essential. So via the dialectic, critical race theory gets
to be race-essentialist while claiming it's race-anti-essentialist. And so it's really hard
to pin down whether or not it's race-essentialist or not, because it's taken essentialism and
anti-essentialism, collided them in the dialectic, and produced this new thing that's hard to fight
called structural determinism. And structural determinism is the logic behind how they organize
society. When they say things like, for example, that positionality must be consciously engaged
or intentionally engaged. That's a Robin D'Angelo. It appears all over the place in Robin D'Angelo's
writing. That's what she's talking about. Structural determinism has to be taken into account.
Structural determinism allows them to be essentialist while claiming anti-essentialism,
and it keeps people from being able to pin down what they're actually doing and why and how they're
actually racist. It's by claiming a imposed lived experience that people aren't allowed to buck.
So they had a dialectical synthesis of these two ideas. And that's what's going on when the
so the dialectic progresses into yet another deeper intersectional group in that book. That's
what's what's being talked about. And of course, again, I draw your attention to the word progress,
progresses. That's the idea behind Hegel's that dialectic is constantly progressing through an
arc of history. So this is still the operating system. And finally, on this part of the podcast,
anyway, we're going to keep going, I'll note that the entire concept I've kind of hinted at this
already of intersectionality as framed out by Kimberly Crenshaw is also just a huge dialectical
machine. I did a podcast series on Crenshaw's mapping the margins, her most famous paper.
So people who want to know more about how I identify the dialectic in intersectionality itself
can go listen to that and hear me develop the thought there. That's really where I developed
it the first time. But in its core essence, intersectionality turns critique inward
into itself really, it takes already so-called marginalized activist groups and dialectically
attacks them. They attack themselves with their own tool. Feminists have to confront their racism.
Black Liberations have to confront their sexism and misogyny. And also everybody's going to have
to confront their homophobia or whatever. The goal that is stated there is to create solidarity.
But if you read Markouza's essay on tolerance, section four, it's a four part essay, is just
solidarity. Solidarity is the objective that is said to create liberation. So this is all we're
seeing here is the same dialectical neo-Marxist engine. So solidarity becomes the dialectical
synthesis of these competing, remember where Patricia Collins was talking about the competing
forms of identity and their oppressions. Intersectionality becomes the synthesis
of these competing forms of oppression and the dialectic of oppression and activism that she
keeps talking about. Intersectionality becomes the synthesis there. Of course, Markouza also
says that we have to biologically change mankind to want and need liberation.
And that will actually be done by changing them biologically to want and need solidarity to
want another, to create a whole new kind of man, liberated man, kind of an echo of the new Soviet
man that will be able to tolerate and usher in liberation. But Markouza's eugenics is another
topic for another day. The point here though is the dialectical critique, really what we're going
to see is the Alphabander Coulter. At the heart of the leftist project, it's turned inward under
intersectionality directed from one identity political group to another to create solidarity
allegedly across all of the so-called marginalized identities by evoking their guilt
that they're oppressed and therefore that they're ignoring the oppressions of other people
and need to be more sensitive to that. And intersectionality therefore becomes the synthesis
of the various otherwise competing forms of systemic oppression. So if you see critical,
say race theory, queer theory, et cetera, as means to tear everything down intersectionality
becomes the means to synthesize and put them back together into a new cobble together upside down
pyramid hierarchy, which is exactly what people are perceiving. And that's where it lives. That's
why it is intersectionality is the dialectical synthesis of all of the competing forms of
so-called systemic oppression. And it gives an analytical framework allegedly for working that
out and establishing a hierarchy, which is the inversion of what Patricia Collins called
the matrix of domination that describes how intersectionality works. So it of course though
intersectionality has to be organized this way. Why? Because the dialectic is the operating system
of the left. It's driven by Alphaband just like we're about to turn to. It's been the core of
progressive, therefore dialectical thought and the dialectical progressive left's project for
almost 200 years. That's the point I wanted to drive home with this first half ever since Hegel
unleashed it and it's an applicable form into the world. So of course intersectionality would be
organized that way. So to summarize, the dialectic is the operating system of leftism and has been
since the young Hegelians took it up probably in the 1820s and 30s right up through today. So 200
years. Just incidentally, as an aside, the concept of manifest destiny, which is often charged by
the left as being this catastrophe that destroyed Native Americans and all these lands and blah,
turns out that that wasn't exactly a conservative meta-narrative. It was championed by the so-called
young Democrats. The young Democrats were the American parallel to the young Hegelians. They
had adopted a lot of the Hegelian progressive philosophy of the young Hegelians. These young
Democrats used these ideas, including manifest destiny in the United States of the 1830s and
1840s to what a lot of people see as calamity, but not necessarily. And I guess kind of as a final
capstone to that line, Stephen Douglas, who famously lost the debate in the election to Abraham Lincoln,
wasn't a vowed Hegelian in the young Hegelian mode as well. So just something to kind of contextualize
that period of history for you. This was happening in the United States, not just Europe in terms of
thought and activism. So I think I've established that the essential core of the operating system
of the left is the dialectic. This has been from Hegel and the young Hegelians all the way forward
through the Marxian old left, to the neo-Marxian new left, to the contemporary woke left. And this
is the engine that drives all of their thought and activism, the dialectic, which draws back to Hegel.
How does it work, though? The tool is called alphaben. It's a German word. It means to keep
and yet to destroy at the same time. It's a very complicated term. I've talked about alphaben a
little bit before. I'm going to develop alphaben here a little bit to give you an idea that Hegel
himself was fascinated by this idea of alphaben, keeping and destroying. He writes in his book,
The Science of Logic, or just Science of Logic, alphaben constitutes one of the most important
concepts in philosophy. Alphaben, he says, has a twofold meaning in the language. On the one hand,
it means to preserve, to maintain. And equally, it also means to cause disease, to put an end to.
It is a delight to speculative thought, defining the language words which have in themselves
a speculative meaning. This was Hegel talking about this fascination with the term alphaben.
Alphaben, I'm going to make the contention, is the negation process. It is the negative process.
When Hegel lays out abstract negative concrete, it is the negative process. Or in other words,
it could be the antithesis process. I gave this example in a recent video that I put out.
I derived this from a friend of mine on Twitter. Brilliant observation and frustration by my friend
Emmy, who pointed out that she said that this is basically what you see on Twitter, but it's
really more accurate to say is what you see from the dialectical aspects of Twitter. And this is a
perfect example of alphaben. It's that I might say that the sky is blue, and a straight negation of
that would say, no, it's not blue. Or maybe you would negate by implication by saying it's green,
or it's red, or it's some other color. But an alphaben would say not at night, or maybe even
not when it's raining. And so it has this feeling of deliberately missing the point. So you get to
keep the blue, like you didn't actually tear down the blue, you get to keep it. But at the same time,
you've abolished the concrete sense that the idea was right in the first place. So now you have to
reach this synthetic view of the sky that's more complicated, that the sky is only blue during
daylight hours in clear skies or something like this. This is a very good way to get a sense of
how this dialectic proceeds to this concept of alphaben and what alphaben actually looks like
in practice, according to the way that Hegel imagined it. This is this kind of very annoying
tool that the dialectic proceeds upon. By the way, since he uses the word speculative over and over
again, it's important to point out that Hegel was a speculative idealist as a type of philosopher.
Speculative means looking into a mirror, speculum is a mirror in Latin, and sort of what it means.
Hegel meant by being speculative or what he means as a speculative idealist is that
the way to understand ideas is to reflect upon them. The purpose of reflecting upon the ideas
is to recollect or remember what's already known in a very abstract sense. Really, it's also to
divine the concrete from facing the idea and its negation at the same time. So alphaben in that it
means keep and destroy at the same time is speculative in that it contains this place where
you have the thing in its opposite reflecting back on one another at the same time. So alphaben is,
in a sense, what is an autological word that is alphabening itself. I don't know my German conjugation,
so we're just going to use German-English for that and say alphabening, which is totally wrong.
And I don't care. Sorry, Germans. You guys can put it in the notes or whatever.
So this is going to be key to moving into the trajectory of Hegel's underlying metaphysics
that we'll get to in the next part of the podcast or the development of the podcast,
and that is that he has this metaphysical assumption that the particular can only be
understood through the whole, and speculation is going to be kind of how you're going to
accomplish that. And so the recovery of the whole through a speculative thought process of reflection
and recollection, remembering, is going to be able to be achieved through examining the particular
and their antithesis through the dialectic. And that is the ultimate objective for Hegel of philosophy,
a.k.a. reason or in German Vernunft. So this makes Hegel, we have to point this out because
we're going to come back to this a bunch of times later, Hermetic. And Hermetic means an alchemist.
And that's his philosophical orientation because his alchemy is achieved through the dialectic,
the dialectic is like the fire that heats the contents of ideas in its alembic and gives rise
to their refined or synthetic understanding. Alphabon is the process that's going on, is the
way in which ideas are to be refined alchemically, kept yet destroyed. That's where Markoons is
talking about peeling off the power of the current era so that the seed within can sprout.
That's a Hermetic idea. Hermeticists believe, for example, that the seeds of gold exist in
all the base metals. So if you can just get the base parts to peel away, then the seed of gold
will sprout and blossom and the base metal will be transformed into gold. That's a Hermetic or
an alchemical belief. This is actually the underlying idea of Hegelian thought. So when
we say that Hegelian thought is a Hermetic or alchemical faith, that's actually what I'm talking
about. And Alphabon is the tool, keep but destroy, by which it's done. And of course, it's itself
so-called speculative. So it's very important to realize that what, and we'll see this later on,
that what Hegel actually means by speculative is having mystical content. It's mystical. It's
mysticism. Speculative means mysticism. And so this is going to open the door to a lot of things
for Hegel that he already was, like Hermeticism, Alchemy, and in particular also Gnosticism,
which is why all of these ideologies, like critical race theory, can be thought of as race
Gnosticism, like people having a particular race because of their structurally determined lived
experience, have special insight under a doctrine of standpoint epistemology that gives them the
ability to understand things and have racial knowledge, etc. It gives them special knowledge.
That's Gnosticism. That's racial or ethnic Gnosticism. And this is why, because the Hegelian faith is
itself Gnostic, and it's open to being Gnostic because it's speculative, by which me is meant
mystical. And the people who know the secret are the Gnostics. The people who understand
the mysticism are the Gnostics, the ones that have the special knowledge. And that special
knowledge for Hegel is defined in what he calls reason, or for nooft. So we're going to see this
developed as we go on into his metaphysics. But I really just wanted to drop this here to
reinforce the idea that Hegel is already thinking just in his comment on what Alphabin means,
which is a very fascinating and important concept central to his dialectic. This reinforces the
idea that he's thinking metaphysically and he's thinking in terms of his metaphysics alchemically
or hermetically about the progression of society. This is to also say then that since he's thinking
mystically and Gnostic, he's thinking religiously. And the catechism of his religion is the dialectic,
which is driven by this odd concept of keeping and destroying called Alphabin in German.
So as a further aside, speculative, let me just kind of like dive into this a minute further,
also taps into two features that we see all the way through Hegelianism, Marxism,
Neo-Marxism, and Wokism, which is that words are always given more than one meaning. We've already
seen how that happens with say democracy and tolerance, for example, under Markusa. And the
dialectic is how that's achieved. So you're alchemically developing a second meaning to words
so that you can talk in two ways at once. The people who understand this fancy new language,
the so-called initiated priests, are the Gnostics. They understand something on a deeper way. They
understand in modern parlance under these ideas, the systemic way of thinking and understanding
the world while everybody else understands the words and the various ideas and what's going on
in another more simple way. And the other more simple way is not accessible to the Gnostic,
is not accessible to the Agnostics, the people who aren't given access to this way of thinking.
So alphabin becomes a kind of paradigm example, a word that means it's own opposite. But this
same kind of thought was taken up later by Marx under the words, for the term, for example,
science. We could do it with democracy and tolerance also as Markusa did, but democracy
certainly under Marxism. But Marx used science to mean scientific socialism very frequently.
He claimed that socialism itself is scientific. Wissenschaft liegt er sozialismus or something
like this in German. I'm going to mess that up every time I have to say it throughout this whole
thing. I think I got Wissenschaft liegt er, liqueur, right? But maybe not liqueur, liqueur,
I don't know German. So the Marxism and communism that he labeled as scientific and everything
else, pseudo-scientific, or really pseudo-scientific or scientific, but they actually present
themselves as being scientific. So you have this reversed meaning game played through the
dialectic. Communists do the same thing like we talked about before with ideas like freedom,
democracy, tolerance, which they insisted require communism as a precondition, something the Neo-Marxists
also argued in Markusa we saw, argued vigorously further in their day, and the Wokes still do now.
We also see this tendency for so-called speculative meanings that invite Nazism and
mysticism in their understanding all the way down to what everything going on in the Woke
in proliferation right now. I've documented some of these in tremendous detail on the
social justice encyclopedia I'm keeping on new discourses. You could talk about it within racism,
meaning two things. You could talk about it in diversity, inclusion, etc., segregation,
desegregation, all of these things. Decolonialization is actually colonizing the curriculum,
for example. These are all key examples of the Sophistic, like Sophistry,
double-speak characteristic of Hegelian ideologies, which these are actually just one
genus in the broader order of Sophistry and Gnostic abuses. It's a very big picture kind of thing
just to kind of drop that in there as an aside, but we can see the double-speak clearly under
Alfhaven. We can turn to Lenin, who was big on Alfhaven. He was talking about sublation
technically, which is a typical translation, maybe a vulgar translation of Alfhaven. He says,
it means to supersede, put an end to, but simultaneously maintain and preserve. You've
got this kind of double-speak there. Lenin's promoting this idea of Alfhaven. Markuza talks
about it in his essay on the affirmative character of culture, which he published in
Culture and Society in 1937. Herbert Markuza wrote, it is the real miracle of the affirmative culture.
People can feel happy even if they are not. That's one of his big themes that people are
actually miserable, but they think they're happy. I guess you can own nothing and be happy.
If the culture has entered a Western thought only as an affirmative culture, the abolition
of its affirmative character will act as an abolition of culture as such,
where the German he wrote for abolition of culture is Alfhaven der Kultur, where Alfhaven
is the noun version of Alfhaven. Alfhaven der Kultur, by the way, seeing it pop up here
from Markuza in 1937, Alfhaven der Kultur is a phrase that actually arose much earlier
with another communist thinker about two decades earlier, namely the enormously aggrieved
Georgie Lukacz, or I guess it's just Georgie Lukacz. He's not a girl. I'm trying to get that
right. We saw it as a necessary goal, Alfhaven der Kultur, the destruction of culture, the
abolishment of culture, saw it as a necessary goal to achieve the kind of revolution, meaning
a communist revolution that had just failed for him in Hungary. He saw that Western civilization
was the problem. We had to tear down Western culture to achieve the revolutions that he was
craving as a communist, and the pathway must be to destroy Western culture, Alfhaven der Kultur.
And he first discussed this idea in an essay from 1920, the first time that the phrase Alfhaven
der Kultur appears in the communist literature comes from 1920, and the essay's title is Who Will
Save Us from Western Civilization by George Lukacz. This line of thought then Alfhaven der
Kultur becomes kind of a genesis point where I've talked before where Lukacz and Antonio Gramsci
and Max Horkheimer, for example, met in Vienna. I think that was in 1923. So just after this,
this is obviously how they're thinking to destroy the culture. And then we have the
Frankfurt School coming out of this between Lukacz and Horkheimer going back to Frankfurt.
And we have Gramsci going to prison a few years later and writing the prison notebooks, which
become the basis of cultural Marxism that are literally to infiltrate the cultural hegemonic
sphere by entering the pillars of culture and abolishing them from within by establishing
a counter hegemony, counter hegemony or a counter culture within them and having it burst out
through the dialectical process. So this is where all of this kind of came from. And that,
of course, redirected the goal of the Hegelian and Marxian thought that had been developing
up to that point, 1920, 1926, is what we're talking about right now, toward attacking
culture rather than attacking ideas or materialism, I guess, or attacking material
facets of life, like economics, particularly. So as can be identified, as you could hear in the
examples we gave earlier from Markuza, this has been core to the South Habendur Kulcher has been
core to the leftist program more or less ever since. Their goal is to tear down Western culture,
especially popular culture that makes people happy because as Markuza noted, you can be happy
you can be miserable when think you're happy. He talks about this in like almost everything he
writes, it's all through one dimensional man, it's in repressive tolerance, it's an essay on
liberation. All these people think that they're happy, but they're really miserable. And we gotta
use these critical methods to show them how miserable they are. As for Lukacs, by the way,
he's not a very pleasant guy. Here's what he has to say about what Alf Haben is really about in
the same essay, who will save us from Western civilization from 1920. He writes, in the last
analysis, the communist social order means the alphabong of the economy as an end in itself.
This is all the more true because this side of the transformation, the alphabong of the economy,
as an end in itself, cannot express itself in the surface appearances of life after the seizure
of power. Domination over the economy, that is what the socialist economy is, means the alphabong
of the autonomy of the economy. So destroying the economy for Lukacs is the socialist end in
itself. And the reason, according to Lukacs, is that it enables the seizure of power and thus
the domination of the economy, thus society. And that's what the socialist economy actually is.
He explicitly says that in 1920, and who will save us from Western civilization. So he advocates that
all of this abolishment, this destruction be turned toward culture rather than the economy,
so that the seizure of the culture of Western civilization can be accomplished.
That culture can then be, Western culture can then be destroyed. That would be an end in itself,
such that it will affect the seizure of power to affect domination. And that is the cultural
Marxist project. That is what the leftist project has been about through the entire cultural Marxist,
Neo-Marxist era, leading up at least until the very recent era. But I think that the woke is
actually a continuation of this. And Alphabendir Kulcher is their project today in many serious
ways. And this is Hegel's idea weaponized. Markus echoed the sentiment in an interview he did in
1969 on television, remarking that he only, quote, wants to designate what has to be overcome,
which in German is, I'm going to pronounce this probably, uberwunden, without entering the speculation
about the end result. There's no interest in looking at the end result. We just have to designate
what has to be overcome. That's where he said in the essay on liberation, if we can just tear away
the problems of society, the powers of society, the injustices of society, the seed of the true
better future, the liberated future will bloom and blossom and come out. This concurs with
Marxist critical philosophy that didn't seek to install its own ideology at all, but rather just
tear down the existing capitalist economy and figure it out from there. This is why I did a
whole podcast on communism doesn't know how. It also justifies Lukacs' bad attitude in general.
But generally, communism doesn't know how because it believes that the perfected society lives
underneath the flaws in culture. And if you can just tear down all of the so-called bad aspects
from their perspective of culture, then the perfected society will blossom out of this,
will grow out of this. And this is a alchemical, a hermetic idea. So alphabander culture is the
explanation for most of the Woe Clef's actions today, too. Why do we tear down statues? Why do
they get dumped in lakes? Why are they being defaced? Why are they being graffitied, etc.?
Because they are cultural icons that represent something about the culture. So you have to
abolish the culture, alphabander culture. Why are we destroying the idea of men and women,
or the worthiness of heterosexuality or having children? Why are we calling
mothers birthing persons? Alphabander culture, the cultural institution of the family,
is one of the five that Gramsci noted that has to be destroyed, infiltrated and destroyed.
Alphabander culture. Why are we canceling Dr. Seuss and damn near every other thing?
Alphabander culture. These are cultural podcasts about Dr. Seuss. These are pieces of the culture
that people can relate to one another. They understand one another based on whether it's
old movies, whether it's old cartoons, whether it's friends, whether the show friends, I mean,
whether it's Seinfeld, whether it's Dr. Seuss, whether it's Huckleberry Finn, whatever it is.
All of these things have to be abolished, whether it's to kill a Mockingbird because
they are cultural touch points that let us relate to one another. So, Alphabander culture.
Why are we painting Black Lives Matter on streets and putting it on the big green
monster during the baseball game? Alphabander culture. Why are we changing the names of schools
for people who allegedly were connected to historical evils?
Alphabander culture. Why are we decolonizing the curriculum? Which is really colonizing
the curriculum, by the way. Alphabander culture. Why did Ghostbusters do an all-women reboot or
Star Wars Episode 7 just be an inversion remaking Episode 4? All Alphabander culture. The idea is
to break down those cultural touch points and make it so that we have to now argue. We can't
talk about Ghostbusters without talking about this new Ghostbusters reboot. We can't understand
Episode 4 of Star Wars without having to compare it against the woke remake in Episode 7.
Alphabander culture. It makes it impossible to have cultural references that are solid and universal.
So, Alphabander is the tool that's like the heat in the fire. Dialectic is the fire that's
boiling the alchemy to purify society, to take away all those negative pieces, to purify everything
so that the seed of the perfected society as Marcuse had it can grow out. The dialectic has
therefore been the operating system of leftists. In a clear line, twisting and concentrating itself
all the way back at least to the young Hegelians who derived it directly from Hegel in a progressive
fashion last 200 years. So, that's mission number one. I know we're almost at two hours or maybe
past two hours. That's mission number one. The operating system of the left is fundamentally
the dialectic, and the dialectic is credited to Hegel. But there's something more that has to
be understood. This has to be understood as religious. It's not just philosophy. This is a
religion. This is a faith tradition, and it's engaged in with the same intensity of a faith,
and that's because Hegel had a metaphysics underneath what he was doing, and that metaphysics
even through Marx and his dialectical materialism has survived. Hegel, in fact, is what's known as
a theosophist, which is to say he has forwarded some religious philosophy or speculation about
the nature of reality in the soul that's based on mystical insights into the nature of God. Like I
said, his speculation is mysticism. We're going to back that up here in a second. For Hegel,
the idea of God is what he called the absolute, or sometimes the idea or the absolute idea,
which is what you get when the ideas of the world become perfected and aware of their own
perfection, which is achieved through the process of the dialectic progressing history.
That's the historicism that Engels prays so strongly in Hegel's philosophy,
even as he complained about Hegel's dialectic itself and its inapplicability.
Marx had this same idea, too, but his metaphysics was a kind of
scientistic, again, not scientific materialism, which he called dialectical materialism.
I'm going to mess it up again. We're going to go for the German. Wiesenschaff, Leutcher,
Socialismus, scientific socialism in English at any rate, which isn't science at all.
So remember what Marx had said. This is one of the first quotes that I read in this podcast,
with Hegel, and I'm inserting the names a little bit for clarity, with Hegel the dialectic
standing on its head. It must be turned right side up again if you would discover the rational
kernel within the mystical shell. So this mysticism is key to Hegel's metaphysics.
Marx thought he was getting rid of it, but he actually isn't, as we're going to uncover.
So the essence of Hegel's speculative idealism is a mystical shell. It turns out, as I've been
saying, a hermetic, alchemical metaphysics based in mysticism and nosticism. In other words,
knowing the secrets of God or whatever. Marx rejected the mysticism, or so he thought,
in favor of materialism, dialectical materialism. But because dialectical materialism, communism
doesn't know how, because he retained the Hegelian drive as a very potent imaginator of new ideas
in society, and he didn't know how they were going to get to communism that was just going to happen,
he didn't really get away from it. He was still trying to drive the progress of history.
Marx and Engels were fans of Hegel's historicism, which was predicated off of his
metaphysics, and he's still trying to drive this. So Marx claimed he got rid of the mysticism
through turning it into dialectical materialism, but maybe he did just enough, I guess,
as a way to put it, because this is the primary reason why the US Supreme Court rejected the
claim that communism or Marxism constitutes a religion. It's because this materialist,
it doesn't have a God or whatever. This is despite what both the father of cultural Marxism,
Antonio Gramsci, and defected Communist Party USA leader, Dr. Beladad, both had to say about it.
Gramsci said, and I quote, socialism is precisely the religion that must overwhelm Christianity,
with overwhelm being in the uberwunden sense that we just talked about a minute ago,
had he been writing in German rather than in Italian. Beladad had it this way,
she was one of the leaders of the US Communist Party, and in 1953 she testified to the House
Committee on Un-American Activities, and she explained how we have to fight communism differently
and what communism's ideas and goals are, and she said in that testimony that communism is like a
religion. President Eisenhower said the other day, but it is religion without a God. If you
believe strongly in communism, it is your duty to bring it into every phase of your life.
Communism is a way of life, and it is almost like a religion. It becomes a part of you. It
affects your entire thinking. It affects your attitude toward your students, toward your government,
affects your attitude toward things that are happening day by day. Most communist college
professors begin by being very much interested in their students, and if they have a communist
philosophy, they pass it on. So communism is very much like a religion. This is one of the
leaders of the Communist Party was saying in 1953. So the Marx rejected Hegel's mysticism.
He had such unrealistic and largely Hegelian beliefs about how history would progress in
the material world would evolve that they could be considered somewhat mystical in their own right.
His communism doesn't know how. You just peel away all the problems and the perfect society
will emerge. The consciousness he believed would awaken, the revolution would come,
there would be the class consciousness of the proletariat, the revolution would come,
proletarian revolution. The managed state economy would then emerge and take over in a
state of socialism and then would eventually, through the dialectical materialist process,
realize its own redundancy and a communist utopia would emerge from this as all of the,
as the dialectical materialism purified all of the bad ideas out of the state.
Marx was really just an applied young Hegelian. He applied young Hegelianism
by dropping the overt mysticism while keeping all of the social alchemy. So the core, the alchemical
core is still present in Marx and that derived from Hegel and his metaphysics, which is key to
understanding what's going on. So Marx has kept alive the religious for, not just for communism,
but also all of its Hegelian roots. And the Hegel for Beginners section, for example, of the Marxist
Internet Archive, they write gushingly of their intellectual progenitor, meaning Hegel,
who was ultimately one of Marx's inspirations. They write, reading Hegel gives one a sense that
the movement of thought will coincide with a vision of harmony that awaits us at the
end of the whole process, the end of history. Every serious reader of Hegel can bear witness
to the intoxication of such moments, intoxication. That's exactly what I'm talking about. And this
is where the communism doesn't know how. Faith based part comes in. Marx derived that from Hegel
and maintained it in his own vision, which was then readily taken up by his followers and then
evolved into neo-Marxism and eventually wokeism. The postmodernist kind of lost faith, if you will.
The neo-Marxists, so thus the woke, have retained, like I said, this thought. They brought it back
into a more mystical frame by abandoning the solid material side of this and focusing instead on
culture, which I'm going to insist in Hegelian form is on geist, what Hegel called geist or spirit.
This religious zeal, though, is palpable, for example, when you read Markuza talking about
liberation or you read Alison Bailey talking about how she abuses her students. It's obvious in all
of the major works of the 1960s from Markuza, his earlier eros and civilization, where he waxes
poetic almost about how a certain sexual liberation, it's clear what he's talking about, sexual
liberation freeing the eros, which is subordinated by the demands of consumer and capitalist culture
to do productive work through something like the Protestant work ethic. Your sexual drives are
subordinated, your id is subordinated, and rather than being able to find healthy expressions, you
feel like you're happy in a society where you're not, but if you could just be liberated sexually,
you'd be freefall. This is why I said before reading Markuza, at least in eros and civilization,
you get the impression they just want to have orgies a lot, which when you look at them,
it's totally gross. But anyway, his goal in that book was to marry Marks and Freud
philosophically, and that's a forced marriage if I've ever heard of one. But all this pulls us
back to Hegel again. So let's go back to Hegel and get into his metaphysical a little bit,
but first his goals. Hegel really was driven very religiously, in fact, to try to create
a metaphysical faith system for a Germany that wasn't going to rely on what he believed was
the Orientalism, the intrusion of Christianity, which was a Middle Eastern religion unbecoming of
Germanic peoples and pride. So he believed that he could develop a new metaphysical new religion
and the German folk identity. And he wanted to reinstate this folk identity and his folk
religion. He was also very pro-Germany. You can read that, for example, if you read where he's
been analyzed by Benedict Viviano, where is written in its classic form, Hegel's philosophy of history
concludes that Prussia is the present and permanent incarnation of the Holy Spirit,
and that it is God's will that Prussia should conquer and govern the world,
or so was understood. Such an understanding led to the First World War, I would say it probably
led to the Second One too. Hitler was a Hegelian, it turns out. His trajectory was a little bit
different, more kind of through the thoughts of Heidegger. But anyway, Hegel wanted to retain
his metaphysics. He wanted his metaphysics to give the Germans back a sense of national identity
and pride and to perfect the German state. This turned out to be expressed in a way that went
pretty badly wrong at least twice in the 20th century, and that was all done on the back of
broadly Hegelian projects. People who picked up Hegel led to the First and Second World Wars
in their German pride. Also as a speculative idealist, coming back to that, Hegel's very centered
on the ways that ideas shape society and defined, and as a result, he defined a systematic philosophy,
which is not that far off from a systematic theology. Once you understand his underlying
motivations or systematic theosophy, I should say, as his theosophist, that approaches how ideas are
supposed to be formed, refined, understood, and eventually incorporated into society. That's his
applicable side, and the dialectic was the engine. He wanted to also analyze how this is supposed
to occur. Speculation and mysticism is how it was to be approached. For example, in his lectures
that he gave in 1827, Hegel states, quote, As a whole, the mystical is everything speculative,
or whatever is concealed from the understanding. And in his lectures on the philosophy of religion
in 1824, Hegel speaks of the so-called Ellucinian mysteries, stating that the mystical is the
speculative what lies within. So like I said, when he says speculative, like we saw with Alphabon,
he means mystical. In the Encyclopedia Logic, Hegel writes that it should be mentioned here
that the meaning of the speculative is to be understood as being the same as what is used in
earlier times is called the mystical. He also states, this is kind of very important, we're
going to focus on this next, that the trinity is called the mystery of God. Its content is mystical,
that is speculative. This bit about the trinity is going to be really important to understanding
his metaphysics as a speculative idealist who is grappling with the ideas of his time and
challenging the idea of Christianity, which he saw as an Orientalist intrusion into the German
folk arena. So at the center of Hegel's metaphysics then, as a speculative idealist,
are the ideas of society. So we're going to lay some groundwork for this and then move into
this Trinitarian thing. So in particular for him, the absolute idea, which represents the
culmination and kind of actualization of all ideas in a perfected form. So let's turn back
to our friends at marxist.org and we'll see that this is actually explicitly a metaphysical
conception of what ideas are. So they write, the absolute idea, this is the entry on absolute idea,
by the way, is both the apex and foundation of the philosophical system of Hegel. It includes
all the stages of logic leading up to it, is the process of development with all of its stages and
transitions. The absolute idea or world spirit, Weltgeist in German, plays the same kind of role
for Hegel as a deity. Quote, history is the idea clothing itself with the form of events, that's
in the philosophy of right, section 346, according to these guys at marxist.org, and they continue,
and Marx rejects the need for any such concept since history is a product of people, not the other way
around. Like absolute truth, knowledge of the absolute idea is an unattainable ideal, representing
the whole of nature which has developed to the point where it is conscious of itself, or the
concept of nature developed to such a degree of concreteness that it has returned to itself,
recollected itself if you will, an absolutely comprehensive, practical, and concrete concept
of the world. Hegel defines the absolute idea as the quote, unity of the theoretical idea and
the practical idea. The theoretical idea is the completed notion or concrete concept of the world
or object. The practical idea is the activity expressing this concept, practice. The unity of
the two means fully conscious practice, people acting in true accord with their own nature.
So, for whatever rejecting of Hegel's mysticism that Marx did, you can see that his instruction
to wed theory to praxis, which is ran into conscious practice, praxis, that's what Marx is
talking about, his instruction to wed theory to practice, which is maintained to this day in both
Marxism and Neo-Marxism, and also it appears in the derived woke literature and activism,
especially in critical pedagogy, education, and critical theory. These all demand that
this element of social activism are present to qualify as a critical theory, and all of this
is readily derived from Hegel's idea of the theoretical idea and the practical idea. Remember
when I said earlier that we're going to talk about the theoretical and the practical idea? So,
there's two ideas. The theoretical, there's your thesis, meeting the practical where it runs into
the world, there's your antithesis, and he sees the absolute as the final synthesis of the theoretical
and the practical within his dialectical framework. And for Marx, praxis is the kind of materialist
manifestation where this is occurring. It is the vehicle of the dialectic. So, the metaphysical
point here for Hegel is unavoidable. The absolute plays the role of deity. This is what the Marxists
say about it, the whole of nature when it has developed to a point that it's conscious of itself
and has so become concrete, in other words, synthetic in the dialectical language, and that it has
returned to or recollected itself in speculative or mystical philosophy. So, here we can turn to
the trinity and understand Hegel's views, the metaphysical spiral, as I would phrase it. So,
we'll begin by talking about a letter that Hegel wrote in 1816 where he remarks, quote,
I stick to this idea that the spirit of time has given the order to move forward. This order has
been obeyed. This being is moving forward, irresistibly like an armored and compact phalanx,
and with a movement as imperceptible as the sun's, through good and bad roads, countless
light troops against him and for him flank him everywhere. So, what he's talking about here is
that the idea that history or the spirit of time is moving forward irresistibly, and it's actually
invincible. You can't change the course of history. It's going to do what it's going to do. It moves
slowly and steadily, but like the sun, there's undeniable movement. You look now, you look later,
it's clearly moved, but you'll never see it moving in any moment, unless maybe it's right
along the horizon or something. And it also moves through both good and bad roads. In other words,
it does things that are clearly going to be perceived as progress, and it's going to do
things that are not perceived as progress, but they still count as progress because this is the
progress of history. And it's going to be carried along by countless light troops, some of which
are for and some of which are against. So, you're going to have people arguing on both sides of
what they believe is the right direction of history. So, it could be that you have this great
leader that people are supporting, and he's not actually doing a great job, or you could have
this horrific dictator, and people oppose this person, but this is just the march of history,
according to how Hegel conceived. And this is for him how the absolute, this perfect thing,
moves along through an arc of time called history. And the goal is that the absolute is going to
use the unfolding of history to come to understand itself, and in the instant the absolute understands
itself as the absolute, history will end. In other words, we'll hit what you might call the
eschaton, the end of the world in kind of a kind of religious language. It's important to realize
though that Hegel's thinking endlessly in triads, just like his dialectic. You have thesis,
antithesis, synthesis, technically I guess that's Kant's, which you have abstract negative concrete,
these triads. You have objective spirit, subjective spirit, absolute spirit, theorist,
theory, practice, and their synthesis in what Marx called praxis, which is theoretically driven
activism, which Pauline Christians would probably call evangelism. So, when Marx says that we have
to have theory wetted to praxis, what he's actually saying is you have to be an evangelist on behalf
of Marxism, and do activism, which would be the kinds of things that Christians tend to do like
tending to the poor and acting in charity. But two other big triads we have to focus on are
for Hegel are being and nothing. There's your thesis in antithesis, being and nothing,
and his synthesis there, or the concrete, is becoming. Being, nothing, and becoming form a
Hegelian synthetic triad. Being, nothing, and becoming. And then another is ideas, nature,
and geist. In other words, the ideas, the natural world as it manifests in the spirit.
So, these last two triads become crucial to understanding Hegelian metaphysics.
This is because he had to grapple with, he had these because in particular he was grapple,
I mean, being and nothing are pretty fundamental philosophical concepts, but they're also important
if you're looking even in the Judeo-Christian context. But certainly, the idea of these kind
of trinities is very important to grapple with, if he's going to grapple with the
Christian trinity and make sense of it, as he wanted to, because he wanted to synthesize
out of the Orientalist Christian imposition, which was an antithesis for him to the German
folk religion, and create a new metaphysics, a new systematic theosophy for the German folk
religion that he hoped for. He wanted to understand in particular, because he was kind of a monist,
in a sense. He wanted to understand in particular how Christianity was just manifest, one narrow
manifestation of a more complete picture, what would have been called in the old Hermetic tradition,
a Prisket theologica, a pristine theology, if you will, or a primordial theology,
or he was also interested in the development, the absolute would actually be representative of
what would be called a philosophia perennis. And that was his goal, was to get back to,
to recollect the philosophia perennis, the perennial philosophy. That's the perfect
expression of philosophy that's held up in the, or exists in, I should say, the absolute.
So these are both big ideas that we're going to come back to later as well. But the general idea
here, just to kind of summarize this, that Prisket theologia is a, is a Hermetic concept,
in other words, an alchemy concept, that there's some primordial or pristine original theology,
that all of the world's faiths and philosophies lend partial insight to. They're like
fragmented. You can imagine, like, there's one true faith, and it's like a mirror,
and it's been smashed. And, you know, all the pieces are on the ground, and they're reflecting
different parts. And this one's reflecting Christianity, and this one's reflecting
Buddhism, and this one's reflecting Islam, and this one's reflecting Judaism, and this one's
reflecting Jainism, and whatever. And they're all lending partial insight to the real thing.
But if they could just be made to converge, then you can get to that original, one true
theology, the Prisket theologia. And the alchemy, alchemy is how that's done, because the fragments
of this true philosophy appear in all of these junky worldly forms, base metal forms. If you
could just purify, you could get the seeds of the true philosophy, the original philosophy,
the primordial philosophy to sprout out of this, then you could get back to this
Prisket theologia through an alchemical convergence of the various different faiths of the world,
for example. You could also reach, if he's more interested, Prisket theologia has this ancient,
old, gone primordial aspect to it. Philosophia parenis has a different kind of eternal, and that's
where his absolute really was. And that's what he's really interested in. He's using the Prisket
theologia as a model, this idea that he took out of the Hermetic literature as a model to get toward
this perennial philosophy, which is what the absolute actually is. And that'll be able to
be recovered or recollected alchemically from the various faiths and philosophies of the world
by means of his speculative approach and systematic philosophy. Ultimately, what he calls
translated as reason, he calls Vernunft, which we're also going to spend some time on that later,
and I point to pronouncing it as Vernunft. I'm working on it, my German. So to kind of drive home
this is all still very metaphysical for Hegel, very religious. Hegel has it in his lectures in
the philosophy of religion. Philosophy is only explicating itself when it explicates religion,
and when it explicates itself, it is explicating religion. So for him, philosophy, in other words,
reason is religious. He goes on to say the trinity to draw back to that trinity because we're looking
at these triads that he's interested in for his dialectic, et cetera, and some of these key examples.
The trinity is called the mystery of God. Its content is mystical, i.e. speculative. These are
two things that Hegel says in his lectures on the philosophy of religion. So now we can take
a closer look at the way that Hegel would conceive of the trinity, and I want to focus. We could
talk about, and I will briefly, let me talk about being nothing and becoming. We're going to come
back to the idea of becoming, but being God is I am the I am. It is being, and it is in contrast to
the great philosophical question of why is there something rather than nothing. So being is contrast
to nothing, and he says that becoming is the resolution, the synthesis of understanding this
mystery. But he has this other trinity that he's very interested in, which is idea, nature, and
spirit, or geist. So as an idealist, he's centered on the ideas of society. The reason is how you
engage with them, or reason itself is the expression of the ideas. These take the place of God the
Father as the absolute, as we've already heard from the Marxists. The natural world for him then
becomes like the manifestation of this on earth, and so it's like the Son, or Jesus. But the natural
world is disordered in and of itself, and is not that interesting for somebody like Hegel who's
putting forth a systematic philosophy. And so Hegel has this statement, the state is the divine idea
as it is expressed on earth. So the state becomes, in this Trinitarian metaphor, the Son. So you have
the ideas are the Father, the state becomes the Son, and geist or spirit are the various
normativities of culture in some sense. Those are indicative of the Holy Spirit. So his trinity
become the ideas, the state, and the spirit of the world as they're developing. But he does not
have a Christological understanding of this, or a Christian understanding of this, I guess I should
say. Christianity holds these things, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, to be co-eternal as three aspects
of one eternal and perfect Godhead. God which manifests in the Word as the Logos of John becomes
flesh in the world in Christ, and the Holy Spirit is that which is God moving within and through
the world. And these things are co-eternal. They are one thing as three things. And this is how the
Christian metaphysic understands it. This isn't how Hegel sees it, because Hegel sees things
in a process-oriented or evolutionary-oriented fashion. Specifically, Hegel believes that God,
when you talk about God, that's God merely in himself, or God in potentia as an abstract,
as a Logos, or as a reason. And that's insufficient to be truly a deity, because the absolute to be
complete would have to not just be abstract, which is the beginning of His dialectical process,
but be concrete. So God cannot merely be abstract. He has to be concrete. So He has to meet His
negative and then come to synthesis in order to be completed. So this is a fundamental contradiction,
or creates a fundamental contradiction for Hegel in the site for his dialectic, because a God that
is abstract is not concrete, and a God that is concrete is not abstract. So there's our contradiction.
So a synthesis will be needed to reconcile these. And that synthesis is the realized absolute. And
here's where we come back to being nothing and becoming, is the absolute who becomes absolute,
only by his realization of himself as a synthetic to both abstraction as an idea and worldly concreteness.
So which is expressed in nature, and then nature as regulated by the state, which is the divine
idea expressed on earth. He also sees God as imminent in the world. So this is kind of a
panentheist view rather than a traditional Christian view. God is not transcendent to the
world for Hegel. Hegel's view is that these three things, the idea or nature in the state,
and then geist, are so-called moments of the concept. Moments are things that can't be reduced.
So if I had a puzzle, for example, I could take all the pieces apart and you could say,
here's all these pieces, and I could take it apart. But if I have something like color,
which is constructed of hue and shade and saturation or whatever, I can't take those
things apart and still have the color. I can't take a color apart, but it has these different
components. So a moment is like a thing that has components that can't be taken apart.
And so these things are moments of the concept. The concept is kind of this key thing at the
center of his metaphysics, and he compares this to the alchemical elements of mercury, sulfur,
and salt because he's actually an alchemist. And he does this while outlining a systematic
philosophy that uses the dialectic to negate each of these moments and allow for it to give rise to
the next, so that the spirit as absolute might eventually bloom. This is where you have that
idea, like the absolute is like the seed. It's contained within all of this, and we can just
peel away all of the bad idea, all the bad parts, the imperfected parts of the idea,
then the ideal or perfected spirit, the absolute, the veldgeist might bloom. And this is just like
alchemists hold that gold is believed to bloom from its seeds that are contained in every base
metal and other materials. It's just like Markuza believed that liberation exists,
like a seed inside of a corrupted society, that if we could just figure out how to do alphabe
into it correctly so that we could keep that seed while tearing away the rest of the junk,
then it would be able to blossom and take off. So for Hegel, this is his metaphysics. Again,
the ideas take earthly form in nature and in the world, and they're managed under the concept of
the state. So the divine idea expresses itself through the state. So an inclination towards
statism in Hegelian philosophy has a metaphysical imperative. It's not only obvious, but has a
metaphysical imperative. The state in turn then sets the material conditions for society, which
gives rise to how people live. It gives rise to the spirit that they live under, or in other words,
the culture, which we'll call the geist of that nation or society or the world, maybe,
when it's all perfected and it's the world, and it will be the veldgeist. And this is where the
goal is to try to head to. The geist then in turn, though, because each moment negates the previous.
The geist is then going to be able to refine how the prevailing ideas, the philosophy, using the
dialectic and alphabe, by finding the contradictions in that new structure. The ideas are coming down,
the state is implementing them, the culture that arises, and things still aren't perfect,
and the people in the culture are going to start discovering the problems. And so the geist is
then going to take the next level of refining, and the more conscious they are, the more consciousness
they have, the more ability they're going to have to refine these ideas. And that's going to give
rise to a new iteration of improved ideas, allowing this process to repeat. So we no longer have this
kind of eternal God that is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We now have this ideas as God,
state as Son, and geist or culture as spirit. And rather than just being three in one, we now have
this kind of spiraling process where one gives rise to an improved version of the past, of the
next, or whatever, or of the previous, I should say. So we have this spiraling through history,
where a new improved state follows from the new improved ideas, usually, as Hegel had it,
through the activity of a man of action that is being used by history, which has its talos of
purpose to it. And this is going to create new conditions, and that's a new geist, which is,
in a sense, a new culture. And that's going to start the process all over again. So you have this
spiraling through history of ideas, state, spirit, improving as they go along the trajectory of
history. That's Hegelian metaphysics. So in a sense, the Trinity is not transcendent and eternal,
it's imminent, and it's a process. It isn't, it's becoming. It isn't perfect, it's perfectable,
and perfecting through the process of history. In other words, it's heading toward the emergence
or the recollection of that philosophy, Perennis, the Perennial philosophy, by speculatively,
which is, say, mystically trying to recollect the Priska Theologia. This is a very alchemical
approach to this Trinity. This is Hegel's philosophy on this. Philosophy is how this is
going to be done for Hegel, reason, for an umpt. Because that's how the geist informs the philosophers
to improve the ideas, and the process that Hegel recommends to do this is the dialectic, which
is through seeking those contradictions, but while keeping that essential core. In other words,
Alfhaben. The reason for this is ultimately the alchemy, the Hermeticism that he based a lot of
his thought on, because he was an alchemist. It's also because he's a Gnostic, and he believed
that his ideas of reason were higher, and they understood things better. So for Hegel, though,
the Godhead isn't a thing that is in the world, or is transcendent to the world, I should say,
but merely is, it's a process that spirals through and creates history as it goes. Again,
ideas give rise to a state. Father begets son. This creates conditions for a spirit
that then flows back into the Father, which is now more self-aware than it was before,
and this unfolding of history and refinement of ideas are one and the same.
For Hegel, this deity is absolute spirit, or the absolute, or the absolute idea. It is the
ultimate synthesis of all of the subjective spirit and objective spirit through the dialectical
process. It's the synthesis of the theoretical and the practical. It is what happens when the
abstract God meets his negation in the worldly squalor and is synthesized into the absolute,
into something that is becoming absolute, I really should say, into becoming, so being nothing
and becoming. So while the absolute is always the absolute and the Hegelian metaphysic,
the deal is that the absolute doesn't know that it's absolute until its ideas are perfected.
So God isn't God until God, God isn't God if he's just an idea, if he's just transcendent. God has
to be in the world and also transcendent, and that has to be synthesized. So that's what the absolute
is. It has to be a God that is out of the world and in the world and simultaneously aware of itself
as such. That synthesis has to arrive, and the name for that synthesis is the absolute.
And when that occurs, the so-called ideas of the society, thus the state that flows from it, thus
the spirit of the people, are all going to be perfected. And that's what Marx thought would be
the communist state, or that's what Marcuse thinks is liberation. That's what you see when you talk
about black liberation. That's what you see when you hear people talking about racial justice
or racial liberation or whatever liberation they're all talking about today in the woke thing.
So God for Hegel doesn't become God until God realizes that he's God, which is required,
or which occurs only after God makes creation as a dialectical other to himself to compare
himself against, and the process unfolds itself all the way until the plurennial
philosophy is remembered as a result. That's, I guess, very complicated, but it kind of
bounced back to Judeo-Christianity to make it more simple. The Judeo-Christian metaphysic
God is. I am the I am. I am the often the Omega, the thing that is before, beginning and after the
end, eternal, perfect, etc. God creates the world because it is his will as the creator to do so.
And the Hegelian metaphysics God as absolute becomes rather than is through a process of
having the world and reflecting himself against the world and refining in that process the ideas
of the world via that above described spiral process. So the absolute becomes truly absolute
only when it is both abstract and concrete and realizes itself to be such, and thus it becomes
the absolute. It realizes itself as the absolute, or it actualizes itself, realizes itself for the
words that you often see around this. So this absolute then becomes the last idea to be perfected.
The realization that God realizing himself is the last idea to be perfected. So a God that
everything's perfect except he doesn't realize that everything's perfect yet is the last step
before the perfected God. So that last idea to be perfected is God realizing himself as God.
So God realizing himself as God becomes the final perfected idea after which time the ideas become
perfect and again the state becomes perfect so the spirit and culture become perfect and history
reaches its end and utopia begins. And that is the Hegelian historicist metaphysic that is driven
through the alchemical method of dialectic that burns off or tears away the incorrect ideas,
the failures of history, the things that have to be taken apart via the process of alphaben which
is to destroy and yet keep. So Hegel frames this out roughly as God creating in the world itself
as some other to itself as an abstract idea. So now you have the abstract God creates a negation,
the negative, the other which is the world by which he will be able to know himself that is
through hermetic theosophy, that is the definition of hermetic theosophy,
that God requires the world to realize that he's God and that is the heart of the Hegelian thought.
This perfect being, so the absolute represents or the deity represents a perfect being say that he
doesn't know that he's perfect. So he creates this imperfect world, so that's the Prisket theologia for
example would be the theology that understands that God. So he creates this imperfect world
as an antithesis to his own perfection and then through the process of dialectical synthesis
which will be carried out by philosophers, politicians, so-called men of action who are
summoned by history for the purpose of driving the theosophy history, he will eventually be
able to be made aware of himself as absolute. The philosophers and so on drive this because they
are the ones who work with the ideas and exist within the spirit or the geist, the culture,
the national or world level be that a national geist or a world geist,
Weltgeist in German. But again, ultimately this is alchemy, this is hermeticism. It means a lot
more specifically if we get into what hermeticism is really about, but the root of hermeticism is
the belief that God requires creation to be God and that he learns that he is God through his
creation. This is a complete rejection of the Christian metaphysics where God is, God is transcendent
and God doesn't need his creation, he created it because he wanted to. It was his will.
Hegel the alchemist applies his alchemical thoughts to metaphysics and what arises is his view of
phenomenology and ultimately the dialectic that's supposed to drive this. This is why what we're
dealing with, with the woke, with the neo-Marxists, less with the postmodernists, they get complicated
because they were despairing, they lost the faith. With the Marxists before them, with the young
Hegelians before them, that's why what we see is this long 200-year-long religion that's manifesting
in different ways and it's all the Hegelian metaphysics applied to basically create the
perfected society by a bunch of, frankly, megalomaniacs who think that they know how to do it,
they know what the perfect society looks like and they try to approach it. So with Marx and later
the neo-Marxists, they're not as up on all this mysticism, all this alchemy in the specific sense,
maybe with the exception of Walter Benjamin, he's an early Frankfurt school guy who was actually a
Jewish mystic. He maybe is an important exception, but most of them weren't that deep into the
mysticism. Marx certainly wasn't deep into the mysticism unless you want to try to classify him
as a Satanist, which there are Marx quotes that would support that. But anyway, none of this
deeper engine of Hegel though, despite the fact that they get rid of the so-called mystical shell
to get to that kernel, that's what Marx was talking about. None of the engine really goes away.
The dialectical process, a lot of the alchemical belief is still presently there. Marx reframed
things in a material way. He talked about ideology, superstructure, and society. Well,
there's your ideas, state, and spirit. These are echoes that persist all the way down. For
example, in Critical Race Theory today, we have white supremacy as the ideology that gives rise
to a systemic racism superstructure of society that thus creates an inequitable society and a
imperfect spirit. And the critical race consciousness, like Marx's class consciousness,
is to be awakened by the critical race theorists, and that will lead people to challenge this
existing status quo through a dialectical process that we heard from many black feminists and
critical race theorists already. That will result in a revolution at the level of culture,
a cultural revolution, whereas that had ever been tried before, that eventually brings equity
and racial justice, and it's going to refine the ideology out of white supremacy. And the
ideology will therefore give rise to a not systemically racist superstructure, and we enter
into a post-racial utopia. And that's really what the goal of Critical Race Theory is, but it has no
clear objective to get there. But this is all exactly the same idea as whether you want to
point to Hegel, or you want to point to Marx, whether you want to point to Marcuse, all a new
packaging, same operating system, new computer. So that this is all alchemical then for Hegel,
and metaphysical is quite clear that it's state alchemical, I don't think I've really established,
going into like neo-Marxism and wokeism, other than to point out that Marx believed that the
awakening of class consciousness would move the proletariat to advance history to its
communistic end. Liberal capitalism would therefore give way to statist socialism and
eventually resolve in, as Marcuse had it many years later, a society that presently exists
nowhere on earth. In other words, something that isn't derived from which is, in that case, perfected
communism. So in other words, communism is supposed to be the end point here. So it's no
surprise that the neo-Marxists understood and adopted this ultimately alchemical form as well.
So we can turn back to let's look at their literature. We'll find some.
Horkheimer and Adorno, we mentioned the dialectic of enlightenment. And by the way,
this is the first time the word dialectic appears in that text, other than in the title.
They're talking about dialectical thinking, and it's given as the kind of thinking, quote,
in which each thing is what it is only by becoming what it is not. That's alchemy. Another good
example that this alchemical thinking is still going on appears in Marcuse's repressive tolerance.
Tolerance is only truly tolerance by becoming intolerant. We see it also
where freedom is only truly free if you limit freedom for certain people, at least.
Democracy is only truly democratic when the people with the wrong ideas are disenfranchised,
maybe even lose suffrage. Critical thinking is only truly critical thinking when it adopts a
critical consciousness or in critical race theory, a space is only desegregated when it is segregated
so that it can get away from that structurally deterministic force of racism that's a super
structure of society. This is on the rationale that a space can therefore only be deracialized
by intentionally racializing it, as we saw in Kimberly Crenshaw's Mapping the Margins,
where she advocates that there's a fundamental difference between saying I am black and I am
a person who happens to be black. We have to racialize specifically to fight against the
imposition of race that's already present. So we have to racialize to deracialize. And again,
we see this doublespeak. This is all alchemy. Again, Horkheimer and Adorno, dialectical thinking
is the kind of thinking in which each thing is what it is only by becoming what it is not.
Lead turns to gold. It's still alchemy. Of course, let's be fair. I mentioned Theodore
Adorno in the dialectic of Enlightenment earlier. He criticizes this exactly this idea. I tell you,
he turned kind of post-Marxist by this thing 20 years later in 1966. He seeks to recover the
dialectic in some new way that merely negates what is and thus opens possibilities for new ideas to
bloom from the particulars for nothing in the way. We'll just get rid of everything that's
in the way. We won't have a synthetic structure. We're just going to get everything out of the way
and then that perennial philosophy might emerge. But this is still alchemical thinking. We see
this with the post-modernist Foucault's idea that through criticism, he can expose all the
absurdities and thus expand the potentialities of being. That goes the same vibe. Both of these
lines appear in the post-Marxist dimension, but we see it in Neo-Marxism as well. Herbert
Marcuse's Liberation is the same thing under the Neo-Marxist approach described thusly in his
1969 essay on Liberation. Quote, beyond these limits, there's also the space both physical
and mental for building a realm of freedom, which is not that of the present. Liberation,
also from the liberties of the exploitative order, a liberation which must precede the construction
of a free society, one which necessitates a historical break with the past and the present.
Of course, the alchemy is still present. It's just worded differently and much less mystically.
But in alchemy, this is a key important point. The alchemist must purify himself appropriately,
whereas alchemical magic won't work. This is a key hermetic belief. For Herbert Marcuse,
we see this actually in the essay on Liberation, which is again 1969, so it's pretty recent.
And he writes in shockingly eugenicist terms. We've mentioned this before,
what it will require. I'll actually quote here. What is now at stake are the needs themselves?
At this stage, the question is no longer how can the individual satisfy his own needs without
hurting others, rather how can he satisfy his needs without hurting himself, without reproducing
through his aspirations and satisfactions, his dependence on an exploitative apparatus which,
in satisfying his needs, perpetuates his servitude. The advent of a free society would be
characterized by the fact that the growth of well-being turns into an essentially new quality
of life. This qualitative change must occur in the needs and the infrastructure of man,
itself a dimension of the infrastructure of society. The new direction, the new institutions,
and relationships of production must express the assent of needs and satisfactions very different
and even antagonistic to those prevalent and the exploitative societies. Such a change would
constitute the Extinctual Basis for Freedom, which the long history of class society has blocked.
Freedom would become the environment of an organism which is no longer capable of adapting
to the competitive performances required for well-being under domination, no longer capable
of tolerating the aggressiveness, brutality, and ugliness of the established way of life.
The rebellion would then have to be taken, the rebellion would then have taken root in the very
nature, the biology of the individual. Now, on these grounds, the rebels would redefine the
objectives and the strategy of the political struggle in which alone the concrete goals of
liberation can be determined. You hear Hegel all through this at this point, right? But he's talking
about having to literally change the very nature of the biology of the individual so that he's no
longer capable of tolerating domination. Maybe you could make him psychopathic. He does note in a
footnote that he's not talking about biology as biology, like biology, biology, but rather that
he's just making people totally intolerant to the idea of intolerance and of oppression.
And look what we're doing to our poor children, making them with their microaggressions and they're
so hypersensitive and they freak out and like people say no more politics at work at base camp
and they throw themselves on the floor and cry and have tantrums and they have total meltdowns over
everything psychologically incapable of dealing with life because they need liberation. They need
this perfect liberated world. Ooh, well it's Marcus's project and is it happening? But he's
pretty insistent about his biology. Whatever he says about meaning not really meaning biology,
let's read a little bit more. Political radicalism thus implies moral radicalism,
the emergence of a morality which might precondition man for freedom. So we've got to change
morality completely. This radicalism activates the elementary organic foundation of morality in the
human being, uh-oh, organic foundation. Prior to all ethical behavior in accordance with specific
social standards, prior to all ideological expression, morality is a disposition of the organism,
perhaps rooted in the erotic drive to counter aggressiveness, to create and preserve
ever greater unities of life. We would then have this side of all values, sorry, we would then have
this side of all values, an instinctual foundation for solidarity among human beings. So solidarity I
mentioned is key. A solidarity which has been effectively repressed in line with the requirements
of class society but which now appears as a precondition for liberty. Solidarity is a precondition
for liberty. To the degree to which this foundation is itself historical in the malleability of human
nature reaches into the depth of man's instinctual structure, changes in morality may sink down into
the biological dimension and modify organic behavior. Once a specific morality is firmly
established as a norm of social behavior, it is not only introjected, it operates as a norm of
organic behavior. The organism receives and reacts to certain stimuli and ignores and repels others
in accord with the introjected morality. Isn't that what's happened to our poor,
emotionally crippled college students and adults now? Which is thus promoting or impeding the function
of the organism as a living cell in the respective society. In this way, a society constantly recreates
a side of consciousness and ideology, patterns of behavior and aspiration as part of the nature
of its people. And unless the revolt reaches into this second nature, into these ingrown
patterns, social change will remain incomplete and even self-defeating. That's a pretty scary project,
man. Just going to say, but we'll finalize with a little bit more from the essay on liberation
where he really gets into this biology thing. In the advanced capitalist countries, he writes,
the radicalization of the working classes is counteracted by a socially engineered arrest of
consciousness. Yeah, of course it is. That's his main thing. And by the development and satisfaction
of needs which perpetuate the servitude of the exploited, a vested interest in the existing
system is thus fostered in the instinctual structure of the exploited and the rupture with
the continuum of repression is a necessary precondition of liberation and it does not occur.
It follows that the radical change which is to transform the existing society into a free
society must reach into a dimension of the human existence hardly considered in Marxian theory,
the biological dimension, in which the vital, imperative needs and satisfactions of man assert
themselves. And as much as these needs and satisfaction reproduce, a life in servitude,
liberation presupposes change in this biological dimension. That is to say, different instinctual
needs, different reactions of the body as well as of the mind. So again, alchemy. Purify oneself
sufficiently and engage in the dialectic, the magic process by adopting the critical consciousness.
This is what Marcuse demands and what will happen is a liberated utopia will emerge
on the other side of everybody doing this by blooming out of the ashes of the existing society
once all of its limitations and oppressions are burned away through alphaben, especially
alphabenderculture. This is alchemy driven by the dialectic in order to achieve a utopia,
gold sprouting from lead, a golden society, a golden age sprouting from an oppressive leaden age.
This is the same alchemy and it requires here, literally at the biological level,
just like the Soviets requested a new Soviet man, the purification of the self for it to
actually work. The adoption of a pure consciousness of the religious, whether it's critical
consciousness, class consciousness, racial consciousness, whatever it happens to be.
So in essence, this is the Hegelian idea that people will not and cannot be free so long as they
are other to the absolute. And in the instant that they genuinely become aware of their own role
in manufacturing the absolute and how the absolute understands itself, the absolute will realize
itself, history will end in liberation or communism or true freedom, whatever they want to say
will emerge in this perfected society that comes out at the end of history.
And that's Hegel's historicism upon which all of these stupid ideas are based. It's a Hegelian
religion. Of course, we can put all that crap that Marcuse just said, the purification, etc.,
much more simply by talking about a contemporary voice. Robin D'Angelo, the author of White
Fragility, puts it from her much narrower perch in critical whiteness studies in that 2018 book
called White Fragility, that you have to try to be less white. That's the ambition. Try to be less
white. That's the solution. Try to be less white. Coca-Cola infamously took this up as a diversity
imperative, which results in them facing massive blowback because people saw right through how
horrific this is. But for D'Angelo, this is the same as Marcuse, really. The same idea as Marcuse
if we were to just purify ourselves of the white supremacist superstructure, get that out of the
way a racially liberated world might bloom. If we want to do that, we have to apply the dialectic,
but we can only do that if we've already adopted this so-called racial humility, racial stamina,
critical race consciousness that she's advocating. We have to be aware of her whiteness and strive
to be less white. We have to recognize that there's no such thing as a positive white identity.
That's another quote from D'Angelo. Once we purify ourselves, we can therefore apply the
dialectic to challenge that white supremacist superstructure by disrupting, dismantling,
whatever the words of the subverting. This is applying the flame that heats the world
so that the alchemy toward a perfected idea is state and culture, and that's the end of history
can be achieved. You hear it in Robin D'Angelo, you hear it in Herbert Marcuse, you see it in
Marcuse, or you see it in Hegel, and it's really also in Marcuse. That line is completely
drawn at this point, and now we're starting to see that it is a religion with a complete
metaphysic, a complete different idea of how the world and God and being and nothing and everything
are constituted, a God no longer that is, but a God that becomes by the actions of humans,
understanding the problematics, and tearing them away so that the seeds of gold, the alchemy,
will arise from that alphabend world. I know Alph Gehoben is the correct past tense there,
or something like that, or Alph, I don't know, you can do the German. So the basic idea here
is that in the process of creating the other, which is the world, God, which is present in
everything, which is kind of a panentheist idea, exists in fragmented form, trapped within the
imperfections of the world and the philosophies and religions that arise, the alchemical process
is believed the same thing about seeds of gold being trapped in baser materials,
is going to be applied here, the alchemical process is to treat those in some kind of an
alembic, usually with fire, by spiritually pure alchemists who are in parallel are
critically conscious philosophers, in other words by Gnostics, and what will happen is they
will free the seeds of gold at a perfected society or perfected ideas and get them to
blossom and thus change the base metal and material into gold, or the society into a perfected
absolute. The idea will perfect, the absolute will realize itself, the end of history will arrive,
and this is the idea behind Hegel's dialectical spiral as Trinity spiral that I've described.
Maybe you think I go too far, well let's check again, let's go look at Markuza again, again these
themes are going to appear over and over again in the introduction to the second edition of One
Dimensional Man, this is not written by Markuza, they describe what Markuza's project is, and he
writes, Markuza thought that dialectical philosophy could promote critical thinking, One Dimensional
Man is perhaps Markuza's most sustained attempt to present and develop the categories of the
dialectic philosophy developed by Hegel and Marx. For Markuza, dialectical thinking involved the
ability to abstract one's perceptions and thought from existing forms in order to form more general
concepts. Uncritical thinking derives its beliefs, norms, and values from existing thought and social
practices, while critical thought seeks alternative modes of thought and behavior from which it
creates a standpoint of critique. Such a critical standpoint requires developing what Markuza calls
negative thinking, which negates existing forms of thought and reality from the perspective of
higher possibilities, spiritually pure alchemy. This practice presupposes the ability to make
a distinction between existence and essence, fact and potentiality, and appearance and reality,
so these are things that will be dialecticized. Mere existence would be negated in favor of
realizing higher potentialities, while norms discovered by reason would be used to criticize
and overcome lower forms of thought and social organization. Thus, grasping potentialities for
freedom and happiness would make possible the negation of conditions that inhibited individuals
full development and realization, in other words, perceiving the possibility of self-determination
and constructing one's own needs and values could enable individuals to break with the existing world
of thought and behavior. Philosophy was thus to supply the norms for social criticism and the
ideal of liberation, which would guide social change and individual self-transformation.
And he also notes, critical and dialectical thinking by contrast postulates norms of criticism
based on rational potentials for human happiness and freedom, which are used to negate existing
states of affairs that oppress individuals and restrict human freedoms and well-being.
Dialectical thought thus posits the existence of other realms of ideas, images, and imagination
that serves as a potential guide for a social transformation that would realize the unrealized
potentialities for a better life. Marcuse believes that great philosophy and art are the locus of
these potentialities and critical norms, and he decodes the best products of western culture
in this light. So he's performing alchemy on them in order to reach these higher
unrealized potentialities for a better life. So for Hegel, where this all comes from, as we just
heard, the divine expresses itself in nature. So the seeds of the divine, the perfected ideas,
exist in everything, but yet everything is imperfect and must contain its own contradictions.
The philosopher, when sufficiently Gnostic, will then be able to apply, in other words,
having the right consciousness, will then be able to apply reason,
verneumft, as opposed to mere verstaund. We'll come back to verneumft and verstaund in a minute.
Via the dialectic, to expose the contradictions and in synthesis get the seeds of the divine
to blossom into the world. This gives rise to more perfected ideas, and the process repeats again,
with history acting as the alembic, or the world acting as the alembic, and dialectic acting as
the fire, and alphabon acting as the reducing process. Occasionally for Hegel, great men of
action, this is a key concept that he based off of, for example, Napoleon, are brought to the fore
by history to move this process along in lurches. A lot of times they're warlords who kill a lot
of people. Napoleon was a Zarkotype, like I said. Lenin, Hitler, Stalin, Mao, Sheikovarra, Castro,
Pol Pot, possibly Woodrow Wilson, maybe FDR, and others, certainly looking more historically,
Alexander, Genghis Khan, etc. These would all make the list of men of action. And they are used by
history, according to Hegel, to move the process of history along, because history has this arching
purpose to it, is ultimately to actualize the absolute. And it doesn't matter if these are
good guys or bad guys, right? Because if they're bad guys, that's okay. Because sometimes it takes
good roads, and sometimes it takes bad roads. That's what we heard from Hegel earlier, and then his own
words. So philosophers primarily for Hegel, though, philosophers, he's got a high place for people like
him, are meant to move this along in particular. And the tool that they're going to use as reason,
which one is perfected, is the absolute. And I say folks very intentionally, who live within the
geist, are also helping to move it along, because they help to expose those contradictions in the
current state of affairs, which the philosophers will then be able to identify and resolve through
proper application of dialectical synthesis. So you see this kind of revolving door that we
talked about with the woke between the activists and the scholars here. The faster and the Hegelian
thought process, the faster, especially the young Hegelian progressive thought process,
the faster this process goes. In other words, the harder the dialectic is pushed, the more the
existing society and status quo are torn down and broken, the faster the absolute will be able to
realize itself through engagement with its other. And thus the faster everything will be perfected
and turned to utopia. So this is, like I said, for Hegel, being a speculative philosopher, he
believes he's looking in a mirror to remembering a process of uncovering or recollecting or
remembering through speculation, which again, we're going to remember is mysticism, that philosophy
perennis, the perennial or eternal philosophy, that is the one true philosophy that all theologies,
all religions, all systematic world philosophies are all revealing some part of, but are not
properly doing because they're not all convergent into one idea. The alchemical process then is
to take the fragmented pieces of this philosophy, philosophy of perennis, and reduce it in the
alembic of speculative philosophy down to its essential core. And the tool for doing this is
going to be the dialectic, that's the fire really, across the differences and the way that it's
actually done is through alphabin. That is the philosophy of perennis, which characterizes the
absolute and indicates when realized that the absolute has actualized as the ultimate dialectical
synthesis of all ideas, like I said before, everything in the world comes back to one idea.
So this is Hegel's speculative idealism is trying to remember the Prisca Theologia,
the primordial theology. That was a concept actually that was introduced just to make this
point really clear in case it's not yet from Marcellio Fincino or Ficino in the 15th century
through the 1400s, I guess then, which is a central concept in hermetic faith. That's alchemy.
So it turns out Ficino was actually a priest, but he was also sufficiently hermetic to where he was
nearly excommunicated. He was threatened with excommunication for his alchemy, also for his
astrology, and maybe for his neoplatanism. So the parallels between Ficino and Hegelianism end up
being pretty obvious. Hegel was certainly aware of them because he commented on them in one of his
books. You can see this in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, for example, where they write
about Ficino. Ficino saw himself as one member of a venerable sequence of interpreters who added
to a store of wisdom that got allowed progressively to unfold. So he's agnostic as well. Each of these
Prisci theologi or ancient theologians had his part to play in discovering, documenting,
and elaborating the truth contained in the writings of Plato and other ancient sages,
a truth to which these sages may not have been fully privy acting as they were as vessels of
divine truth. So Ficino, who was an inspiration in some ways to Hegel, was an astrologer and
alchemist who was responsible for the translation of hermetic texts, meaning literally the text of
Hermes, Trismegistus, along with various Neoplatanus into Latin. And Hegel, writing in the history of
philosophy, is aware of him. Technically, he criticizes Ficino's Neoplatanism, but he also
adopts his hermetic view and something of his Prisca theologiae. In particular, the view that all
faiths and philosophies are manifestations of the one and the same ultimate faith that's being
expressed inadequately and incompletely in the world. And so Hegel believes in his systematic
philosophy and his reason when it's perfected and becomes the absolute that he has the accurate
one true philosophy or faith. This is all being done for Hegel, however, because he sees the absolute
as existing throughout time, even though it's becoming absolute throughout time as well,
freeing up the philosophy of Parenis from the confines of cloudy nature, which has fragmented
it and locked it away in various worldly forms, philosophies and theologies that were constructed
by people who only know the part but forgot the whole. So for Hegel, when you know the whole,
the parts all make sense. So this gets us, I said we were going to come back to first stand and for
Nuunft. These are these two ideas of science and reason that Hegel had. So under the broader
heading of knowledge that Wissenschaft in German, which is often translated as science,
you actually have two categories for Hegel. One is for stand, which means understanding
and translation. And one is for Nuunft, which is translated as reason. So for stand is the lower
level. That's just understanding things. It's parallel to traditional theory and the critical
and traditional theory break. It's just understanding how things work. It's physics, it's science,
it's philosophy. Hegel hated, absolutely hated Isaac Newton, thought he was a total charlatan
in a fraud because he was limited to these very observational, empirical, and very rigorous kind
of things. He probably also hated his alchemy because Newton was an alchemist too. He died,
I think, of mercury poisoning, as a matter of fact, as a result of his alchemy. For Nuunft,
however, is reason. Reason's higher. And his articulation of this is actually laying out so
called a logic of science or something like this, a system of science. And for stand, understanding
is the low level. And at the higher level, you have this kind of critical, dialectical analysis.
His systematic philosophy is reason. And for Nuunft is a reason. And when reason is perfected,
you have the absolute, which is a perfected, reemerged philosophy of Perennis, which reflects
the Prisciatheologia. So this is kind of a very arrogant way of viewing his own philosophy as
basically perfect. But it's also a very gnostic way of thinking. For stand, where you're trying
to understand the world and do so empirically and logically, that's a low level understanding.
There's a higher level of understanding. And you kind of heard Markuza repeatedly appeal to this,
a higher level of understanding that's available to the people who have true reason,
which is freed up and has a consciousness behind it. And consciousness is the consciousness of the
absolute. Pretty intense. We could put this a slightly different way.
One of Hegel's tenets that under the purpose of reason is that the particular cannot be
understood except in relationship to the whole. We were just talking about that. This is the
focus on contradictions, which help you understand that you don't know the whole because if there's
a contradiction, you clearly missed something. This means that Hegel's philosophy is ultimately,
and these are some magic words I want you to pay attention to, Hegel's philosophy is ultimately
holistic rather than reductionist. For stand is reductionist. It's to understand things,
break them down, and get it. For nymphed is holistic. And that puts for stand is lowly,
while for nymphed is higher. The holistic science. But it also means really that what he calls reason
is actually ideology. And this is why all the way down this line, whether it's the young Hegelians,
probably Hegel himself, the young Hegelians, the Marxists, the Neo-Marxists, the cultural Marxists,
we get weird with the post-modernists, but certainly the woke all seem to think that they
have something better, more holistic, superior understanding of the world than everybody else,
and that is very Gnostic in nature. Turning back to the marxist.org glossary, looking up the term
dialectic, we kind of get confirmation of this. They say their formal thinking often has trouble
understanding the causes of events. Something has to be a cause and something else the effect.
And people are surprised when they irrigate land and 20 years later, due to salination of the land,
silting of the waterways, etc., they have a desert. Dialectics, on the other hand, understands that
cause and effect are just one and another side of a whole network of relations, such as we have
in an ecosystem. And one thing cannot be changed without changing the whole system. So here's our
systemic thinking. Formal thinking often has trouble understanding the causes of events.
Something has to be a cause and something else the effect. Sorry, I copied that twice.
Changing the whole system is where I wanted to leave off there. I didn't mean to copy it twice,
sorry. So dialectic, they write, has its origins in ancient society, both among the Chinese and
the Greeks, where thinkers sought to understand nature as a whole and saw that everything is fluid,
constantly changing, coming into being and passing away. It was only when the piecemeal method of
observing nature in bits and pieces practiced in Western thinking in the 17th and 18th century had
accumulated enough positive knowledge for the interconnections and transitions, the genesis
of things to become comprehensible, that conditions became ripe for modern dialectics to make its
appearance. It was Hegel who was able to sum up this picture of universal interconnection and
mutability of all things in a system of logic, which is a foundation of what we today call
dialectics. So in other words, all this stupid scientific understanding of things,
people, formal thinking, all of this traditional theory is first stunned and it's lowly and it's
stupid and people make big mistakes like turning their farmland into desert by not understanding
on a higher level. But we have a higher level for Neumft, which is the dialectic,
which is Hegel's systematic philosophy. So he names his own systematic philosophy ultimately
as logic and reason and that systematic philosophy is, in fact, for him, the higher way of thinking
and it is driven by the dialectic. So this is Hegel's metaphysics and it ties into that thread
that I said that the operating system is the dialectic. So in one sense, you could follow
Marx who said Hegel had the thing standing on its head and turned it back upright and then the
Neomarks who said that Marx had kind of got this backwards and had to turn Hegel back upright again.
I think it's more accurate, though, to analyze these three groups in a different way and kind of a
more dialectical frame, if you will. I think it'd be more accurate to say that Hegel focused on the
ideas, which is to say God, the absolute. Marx focused on the state and thus the materials of
world or the sun and the Neomarks is focused on the culture, which is the spirit or the
gist. So that makes a solid, very clear through line that these people are all the Hegel Marxists,
Neomarksists and their woke inheritors are all talking about the same thing with just different
aspects being what they believe is the relevant part where you do the alchemical process. For
Hegel, if you want to change the world, you focus on the ideas. For Marx, if you want to change the
world, you focus on the state and the material conditions. For the Neomarksists, if you want to
change the world, you focus on the culture and that translates into the woke as well.
Just as an aside, by the way, take a moment to recoil in horror what it implies under Marxism,
that a philosophy treats the state like it's Jesus, which in some sense provides salvation and life,
but also an ideal model for how to live an ethical life because that's really what's going on under
Hegelian statism, especially as it got expressed in Marxism. Because in this way,
just recoil in horror by that for a second, just hang on, Jesus as the state. State becomes Jesus.
The way the truth and the life become the state. This really is how Hegel thought about
the state, by the way. We'll come back to this in a few moments. So in this way of thinking,
just summing up the metaphysics, if I can a little bit, Hegel remains speculative,
which means mystical, trying to apply the dialectic to ideas. Marx frees him from his mystical shell,
makes the dialectic into dialectical materialism, and seeks to exploit the contradictions of
material life by raising class consciousness in the people who experience it. And the Neomarksists
shift that whole project to alphabend or coulter, the dialectical abolishment or
transformation of culture and working in the geist. So the current woke project is primarily
an effort of constant multi-dimensional alphabend or culture, cultural warfare
of the dialectical leftist motif. Thus it's no surprise that we are now currently embroiled
in a totalizing international culture war. And it's also very easy to see who the antagonists are
and how they proceed. And the way that they proceed is through this culture war, this alphabender
culture tear down the existing culture to cause problems. It's also very easy to see this whole
project in all three of these forms as being a religion. In fact, three species or three
denominations of one religion or maybe four denominations of one religion. The Judeo-Christian
model is not a terrible metaphor, but I don't want you to get me wrong and take this all too
literally. I'm just using a comparison. I don't want to upset any of my Christian friends here.
I want to get people to think. I want to spur the thinking. I want to use a historical
development of Christianity in this regard. I'm not comparing the values or the ethics involved.
I'm not comparing the value. I'm not comparing the truth. I'm just using it as a comparison
point so people understand. But in this sense, one, you could almost think of Hegel himself
as being kind of Judaic. And he's the one that's establishing and making covenant with,
documenting this new absolute deity. Marx then falls into the role of the early pre-Polyan
Christians who have brought this faith into a new era of practicality, but whose reach is
relatively limited. And the Neo-Marxists, by turning to Alphabander Coulter down through the
woke, would be like the Pauline evangelists whose reach is virtually unlimited. And that's
sort of the religious structure of this religion in terms of how it comes out practically.
Hegel, the Judaic faith is very exclusive. The kind of pre-Polyan Christian approach is also
quite limited in terms of its reach, but evangelistic Christianity is billions in global
rapidly expansive. And this Pauline demand to evangelize is indicative of what you see in
the Neo-Marxists and the evangelists by moving the entire project into the site of Geist.
So rather than working within the idea as the deity, or working within the material world
as the sun, they instead turn to the Geist. In other words, they're working through what Hegel
would conceive of as the Holy Spirit, and that the Spirit is what moves the world. And good night
are they ever succeeding at moving the world with it. Just a metaphor, though. Don't get too
caught up in that. In all three cases, though, the basic underlying faith is identical, present,
largely constant, and that faith is based on Hegel's metaphysics, which is ultimately a
metaphysics based on societal alchemy that's meant to create some new world that's perfected
and utopian. And this leaves it open to megalomaniacs, who throughout history have come up and picked
up these ideas, whether Hitler, whether Stalin, whether Lenin, whether Mao, we could name more,
who pick up these ideas and think that their vision of the right side of history can be
implemented under their rule. And the woke, although they don't have this charismatic
man of action behind them right now as it's phrased in Hegel, are doing the same thing,
which is why I've called it Leninism 4.0 in the past. So let's step back now. Let's kind of change
gears and start heading toward a very long wrap up to this. We've got a ways to go still. We're
over three hours. It's amazing. Step back to this whole line of broadly Hegelian thought,
there are lots of consequences. Let's talk about the consequences of this line of thinking.
So one is necessity and urgency to the dialectic. If you really believe that the utopia is brought
about faster by the process of the dialectic, you have to do this hard and fast as hard and
fast as possible. This is what the progressives drive at. The more vigorously the dialectic
is applied, the faster we get to utopia that exists at the end of history. So everybody
whom resists must somehow be evil because they resist the idea of utopia and they drag humanity's
feats, they drag history's feet. And in the whole time that is happening, they maintain all of these
oppressions of the imperfected society. That's evil. So you're going to see urgency. You're going
to see demands for conformity. You're going to see demands for collectivism as a result. We're
also going to see statism and I'm going to have to quote Hegel quite a bit, but you already saw
all these seeds of statism. I just haven't really backed them up, but I really want to convince
you that Hegel was a statist, so it's no surprise that Marxism becomes statist. The neo-Marxism
is totally totalitarian and the wokeism inherits both statism and totalitarianism because
Hegel's philosophy is ultimately profoundly statist. Remember that the state is a divine
idea as expressed on earth is pretty statist. So in the philosophy of Hegel writes, quote,
the state is absolutely rational in as much as it is the actuality of the substantial will
which it possesses in the particular self-consciousness once that consciousness has been raised to
consciousness of its universality. That's a complicated way of saying that basically once
consciousness becomes kind of critically aware, then you have the state being absolutely
rational and it's going to be a perfected state like I keep saying. This substantial unity Hegel
writes is an absolute unmoved end in itself in which freedom comes into its supreme right.
On the other hand, this final end has supreme right against the individual
who's supreme duty is to be a member of the state. So total statism under Hegelian thought,
and you see this exact mentality all the way down that whole line, young Hegelian, Marxist,
neo-Marxist, woke. What else did Hegel say? Same in philosophy of right, he says, the state is
the actuality of the ethical idea. It is the ethical mind qua, the substantial will, manifest and
revealed to itself, knowing and thinking itself, accomplishing what it knows and insofar as it
knows it. This sets aside, of course, I mean this more statism obviously, this sets aside,
of course, is a much more famous declaration in the philosophy of history which I just referenced,
for truth is the unity of the universal and subjective will and the universal is to be
found in the state and its laws, its universal and rational arguments. The state is a divine idea
as it exists on earth. We have in it, therefore, the object of history in a more definite shape
than before and in which freedom obtains objectivity and lives in the enjoyment of this
objectivity. So this is why they think freedom comes from the state in Hegelian leftism.
And remember, the state has the supreme right against the individual whose supreme duty is
to be a member of the state. This is Hegelian statism. So all of his theosophy aside, all of
his metaphysical side, all of this has political consequences and free societies like the United
States, especially any free society, the United States in particular, that proceeds from a Lockean
or then derived Jeffersonian framework, we believe that rights precede the state. Our rights were
endowed by a creator. They are inalienable. In a Hegelian framework, this is not how it works. The
individual is totally to be subsumed by the state. It has a supreme right against it and the
individual has a complete duty to the state, total statism, total collectivism. So rights are then
replaced by privileges to be granted by the state. This is a completely different political model.
Rights endowed by the creator meets the antithesis of privileges granted by the state.
The connection to what's going on in the Woke ideology today here cannot be missed,
especially in the now famous declaration in Critical Race Theory and Introduction
that I've repeatedly quoted from page 23 in my edition, first edition. Critical Race Theos
are highly suspicious of another liberal mainstay, namely rights. Of course they are. And they're
simultaneously obsessed with privilege and how the system, which is a manifestation of the idea
state in the culture or geist, creates and thus bestows privilege. Privilege is something that's
granted by the state. They're obsessed with the idea of privilege. They're obsessed with who has
privilege and how that's unfair because the state itself is unfair because the entire structure
of the idea state and culture are incorrect. And so they agitate culture knowing that that's where
you have the most drive to change the entire thing, to reorganize who has privilege. That's
why they're so obsessed with privilege. That's why they want people to check their privilege. That's
why they want to criticize privilege. That's why they're constantly harping on privilege,
because privilege is something that comes down from the state and they want to reorganize everything.
So the privilege gets reorganized so that it operates according to their ideology,
their worldview. Another consequence of the Higellian thought, as I've just mentioned a couple
times, is collectivism therefore. Because when the ideas are perfected, and this is a little bit of
a philosophical point, everybody must have the same ideas because they're perfect. And all the
contradictions that lead to different ideas must have been synthesized. Now think about it. If
anybody has different ideas, that's the site of contradictions. If your idea and my idea are
different, we now have a dialectic between us. So that means it's not perfectly synthesized.
So we don't have the perfect idea, therefore the absolute has not recognized itself unless we
all have the same idea. There can be no cognitive liberty in the perfected state. We have to have
total collectivism. We don't all have to even be the same. We have to think the same. And this is
going to happen by bringing that state, by all subsuming our will to the state, giving over our
will, our duty to the state entirely. So now we're a collectivist organization. So collectivism
is massively, I don't think, of course, the Hegelian thought created collectivism. Collectivism
precedes it, but this is an amplification of it to a traumatic degree with a powerful collectivist
metaphysic underneath it. And this, of course, collectivism leads people who take it up to try
to force a situation because they believe that when there's total conformity to their totalizing
ideology, and that's collectively maintained, then we're now near or at the point of the absolute
realizing itself. We're now at the perfected point, and the utopia is imminent. Because we're all part
of the dialectical process that's moving history forward, and we're all in it together. We're all
in it together, right? That's collectivism. And of course, anybody who has a different idea becomes
both a problem, but also proof that the absolute hasn't realized itself, because the ideas haven't
been perfected. So that person becomes a site, somebody with a different idea, somebody with
their own thoughts, with cognitive freedom becomes a site where the dialectic is continuing to play
out. But that means it's not done playing out. So the utopia is not here. So somebody with different
thoughts is preventing the emergence of the utopia, and probably they're just being stubborn. And you
can see where the frustration starts to rise and where people get shot. People who don't want to
get on board with this, especially once some psychopath or megalomaniacal man of action have
taken control and power, which is totally a weakness of this ideology because their man of
action is always being looked for, who's going to move this through. That's going to be perceived
from within this logic as being against the realization of utopia, problematic, and in need
of elimination, or at least of excommunication or silencing or complete marginalization.
And that's exactly what we see. That's cancel culture. And that's exactly what we saw with
much more horrific manifestations under people like Lenin and Stalin and Mao, etc.
Che Guevara, Fidel, you know, you name them. And this is another thing I just mentioned,
you know, these guys, this kind of a mentality, this Gaelian magic is wide open to psychopaths
and other megalomaniacs who think that they have, and they have the charisma to pull it off a little
bit, and the total ruthlessness to force it, they think they have the vision. They've studied the
theory, and they know what it is. So they have the vision and the capacity to decide what the
right side of history actually is. And it's going to strangely conform to their freaking pathologies,
of course, and they're going to install a pathocracy, a pathological government that basically
tries to make their life like everybody's working for them. And they have the ability to usher that
in at whatever costs. This is going to happen again and again under a Gaelian framework. This is why
the left right now is utterly catastrophic, and it keeps generating these catastrophic movements.
Hegel's man of action is meant to come in in the attempt to fulfill history. History is using
him. He's not even his own agency. History is using the man of action to progress the dialectic,
to progress history. As critical race theory has it, right? The dialect, and so the dialectic
progresses, right? And if he fails in his mission to fulfill history, that still fits into the same
mold. History still progresses. If he doesn't fulfill history, history progresses. He win-win.
So he's likely to gain significant support from the dialectical left who believes in this kind of
faith. But this leads into these kind of mentalities that we keep hearing, these tropes. For example,
real communism has never been tried, because every attempt so far was actually just a case where it
wasn't real communism. People forwarded some new synthetic idea that wasn't the totally synthetic
perfected idea, and the contradictions that they had in their attempt were revealed to them through
the unfolding process of history, which might be tens or hundreds of millions of dead people,
or world wars. World War I and World War II are both the results of this. For example,
all of the communist failures are results of this. Hitler is a result of this. All of this is a result
of a Hegelian dialectic being taken up as a faith. So they say real communism hasn't been tried,
because it will only be tried or only will have occurred after the absolute realizes itself,
not before. And so everything up to that point, no matter how bad, remember good roads and bad
roads, is how history progresses, was just the part of the process of making our way there.
So thesis, communism is the way. Antithesis, 100 million people dead. Synthesis, neo-Marxism,
let's shift it to culture. Let's get out of material and shift to geist. It'll work this time.
Furthermore, all these mass deaths that we see through these awful Hegelian projects,
these people are just martyrs of history. They're not a tragedy. They're a victory.
100 million dead? Good. That's the view, because history used them. They're martyrs,
but history used them to reveal the contradictions and the ideas that are being forwarded in that age,
so they're not really a loss. They were revealing those contradictions as history needed them to.
History used them and discarded them, just as it does men of action.
So indeed, the 100 million dead are a benefit under this kind of a worldview. History, under
Hegel's philosophy, under his historicism, which was praised by Engels, uses people for its purpose
and then discards them, so 100 million dead are just part of that process. Ends justify the means,
after all. We keep hearing these things, they're ends in and of themselves.
As Hegel had it then, the spirit of the time-commanded movement, the absolute marches through
history by good roads and bad ones, so long as it continues marching, 100 million dead is just
another road, just another part of the process. It's all progress, no matter how bad it is.
So let's ratchet down if you're not just from that horror show.
One more example, and then we'll talk about what to do about it to wrap up,
getting close to the four-hour mark. People wouldn't maybe expect is another consequence
of the Hegelian thought is the interfaith movement. We're ratcheting way down from 100 million dead.
The interfaith movement, this is actually another aspect of Hegel's philosophy,
or the results of it, because of that Priscotheologia and the philosophy of Perennis that he's after.
Interfaith is the attempt to bring all the various faiths and maybe philosophies together.
You can think of the UU Church, the United Universalists, for example,
and extract from them what was originally there, that Priscotheologia, before it became
corrupted and worldly, or to identify within them the various aspects reflected of the philosophy
of Perennis that is the perennial philosophy that all of them are just badly simulating in the
simulation and simulacris sense of John Baudrillard. So for Marx, state atheism and his view of
materialism would do, and our present incarnation of all this nonsense, which is woke, as with the
others before, a highly refined, mostly nonsensical vision of social justice, is something to do with
the philosophy of Perennis. Equity becomes the updated vision of communism under this social
justice model. Public-private partnerships become the vehicle, a supernational superstate that
replaces a state as nation-state. So we have our equity geist, we have our supernational state
in public-private partnerships. And the faith traditions of the world all cheer this on by
subverting their own beliefs to the synthetic idea of social justice. So the Christians are
social justice and saying it in Christianese. The Muslims are social justice and saying it in
Islamese. The Buddhists are social justice and saying it in Buddhistese. And everybody's actually
not preaching their own or talking about their own faith or their own philosophy or their own
tradition. They're all just using that as kind of parasitically, using that to forward one different
faith, which is social justice. And a socially just world is the new name for the project
that will lead the absolute to realize itself and actualize. This is all still Hegelian
metaphysical faith. So I hope I've now established my two big takeaways and we can turn to what we
might do with this information. One, we should understand that the operating system of the left,
and I devoted two hours to this, so I hope you got the point, is in fact the Hegelian dialectic.
Though it comes in different forms and with different focuses, largely because the dialectic
being its main operating system applies to itself and concentrates and changes it. So from
Hegel's very idealistic view to Marxist dialectical materialist view to the neo-Marxist very cultural
alphabanderic culture view to the woke, you know, kaleidoscope of identity politics that we have
today. In that sense, what we see as an underlying metaphysics and underlying tool, it's ultimately
religious and is being driven by this process, this dialectical process that is ultimately
alchemical in nature. Understanding this thing is absolutely crucial to understanding what's
going on now and the currents of leftist thought since at least the 1830s and maybe earlier,
and it should truly be seen as a religious movement. By the way, of course, I mentioned the
dialectic with the tool of alphabon at its core is ultimately what drives the whole thing. So the
methodological undercurrent of the entire leftist project over the same two-century time frame
is dialectic driven by alphabon, abolish, destroy, undermine, while trying to pull out and blossom
the seed of gold within it. So if we turn to Ben Shapiro's, now he's been talking a lot about this
trichotomy in society of leftists. I'm going to talk about what to do about it. Leftist liberals
and conservatives. One thing we can take away from this mentality already is that liberals
and conservatives in our society and free societies form a more natural and sensible
allyship for maintaining freedom than do leftists and liberals, though liberals don't seem to realize
this yet. So liberals really should be allying with conservatives, not on conservative policy goals,
but on the maintenance of a world order that is not this insane Hegelian leftism that's likely to
lead to the same kinds of catastrophes it keeps leading to over and over again, because alchemy
is not real and you can't build a positive thing out of negation constantly. In one sense, we could
say then, this is another thing I want to write eventually, the West could be said to have three
gods. I want to write an essay called The Three Gods of the West exploring this idea. In some
broad sense, these would be the Judeo-Christian God, which would be roughly for the conservatives,
we don't have to be too, this is again just kind of tin potting the ideas, but Judeo-Christian God,
roughly for the conservatives, secularized, it's not exactly Spinozin, but Spinozin,
Lockean God, I know Locke was a Christian calm down, that it's kind of characterized in what you
see in the Jeffersonian Bible or the Jefferson Bible where we carved out all of the mysticism and
the magic and whatever else is the miracles with a razor knife early in the nation's founding.
It was reflecting those ideals, the very Jeffersonian liberal ideals, and that's for the liberals. So
we have this kind of Lockean, Spinozin, Jeffersonian freedom deity for the liberals versus Judeo-Christian
God for the conservatives. And then we have the Hegelian absolute as for the leftists,
which is a fundamentally different thing that's inimical to the underlying philosophical foundations
shared by the conservatives and the liberals. So liberals and conservatives here, what I'm saying,
once we understand what this leftism, this Hegelian faith really is, liberals and conservatives,
as we use it kind of in the, I'm saying, Ben Shapiro's trichotomy, leftist liberals and
conservatives, it's not perfect. I get it, I know, I could criticize the language, but it's
useful for how we're thinking. Liberals and conservatives in that sense have something
deeply in common, whereas the Hegelian leftists have something deeply different that really
should be horrifying. So there is actually a natural allyship between the liberals and
conservatives. We could talk about it theologically if you want. My three guys of the west would
argue, for example, that this Judeo-Christian conservative God, just again, Tempot explanation
and this kind of Jeffersonian liberal God have as presuppositions a God that is,
in the God is Alpha and Omega, I am the I am, whereas Hegel has this leftism, has this God
that becomes through their activism, justifying, you know, ends justify the means and so on.
So summarizing that idea, again, very briefly, leftist conservatives with their two so-called
deities as representatives approach the divine with humility. That's what's something they
have in common. They're humble before something bigger than we are. That's incomprehensible
to us. It's ultimately well beyond us, whereas leftists don't have this with their Hegelian
deity and their faith and the Hegelian faith behind them that's fueled up in praxis. They
actually approach what they believe is the divine with arrogance, because their goal is to bring
their own vision into being and make it lord through their machinations and activism. This is
the reason that a lot of the kind of far far right conservative Christians identify it with
Luciferianism or Satanism, because that's exactly the kind of thing that those ideas are supposed
to reflect. It is a very arrogant belief, though, that you're going to bring about the
actualization of God through your activism and compared to the humility of whether it's
God the father of the Judeo-Christian tradition or whether it's the world as it is
beyond and bigger than us with all that humility that's a complete departure. So liberals and
conservatives should be teaming up against leftists. That's one thing to understand from
understanding what's going on here. So ultimately, my goal here has been to make clear what's going
on with the woke left and most of the left over the last 200 years, old left, new left, woke left,
which exists in a single current. That's what I'm trying to argue, a single current in which Marx
is just one species, Lenin, Stalin, Mao. These are woke precursors. Wokeness is Leninism 4.0,
as I've argued elsewhere. Bio-Leninism is other people have argued kind of taking a page out of
Foucault by saying that when you have scientific technocracy involved, technocratic elements
where it's bio-something, and it's Leninism driven through technocratic means of bio-Leninism.
These are all just threads in the same line of thought. There's all one religion, and that
religion is comprehensible, and it's defeasible when it's understood because it's intrinsically weak.
It consistently fails to have the evidence, it doesn't have the argument, and it completely
lacks the moral high ground once you understand what it is. And faith is ultimately the Hegelian
dialectical faith, which is ultimately alchemical in nature, hermetic in nature, as I've been
arguing on Twitter and people get pissed off at me when I do. So one more thing, what can we do
with this idea that I've summarized is that to beat the dialectical left requires understanding
that it is dialectical, and then not getting dragged into the dialectic. It seeks to make
something out of nothing, so you don't play along with it. You don't go along, you don't believe
that you can make something out of nothing, or that you can create positive or success out of
negation. That's absolutely ridiculous where you have Markuza arguing that the negative thinking
leads to positive. None of this will work. They literally think that the golden era is inside
of a shell of oppression. If we just rip all the oppression off, the golden era will blossom out.
This doesn't work. So what do you have to do practically as an individual or an institution
is you have to avoid the dialectic. You have to stay out of it. I did a whole podcast on my other
podcast. I have private contributors only where I compared it to alligators or crocodiles that
drag you under the water and roll you. They throw out a dialectical bid. You need to learn to
recognize these, and you learn to not participate. If you cave in, you bend the knee, you give in,
you grant their presuppositions, you try to argue back or whatever, they drag you into the mud.
Your options then are to mock it if that's appropriate and to get kind of funny about it,
or to, as I've argued in yet another podcast, to engage their Mott and Bailey as it's called
rhetorical strategy, steal their Mott, which means make the core of their argument, their
kernel, the truth of their argument better than they can, and then bomb the Bailey, which is to
say destroy their activist agenda. If we put it in the language of this hermetic alchemical thing,
you're going to go in and you're going to say, yeah, you're right. Okay, it turned out there is a
little nugget of gold inside your big lump of lead, and I'm going to take the gold out for you.
That's going to be mine, and I'm going to point out why everything else you have is lead and know
you're not going to turn that into gold. Steal the Mott, bomb the Bailey. Those are your only
things you can do. You have to find other modes of engagement like mockery or this very kind of
savvy steal the Mott, bomb the Bailey, or you have to just stand in your principles. A little
bit of chauvinism won't hurt too much, refusing to bend the knee, refusing to participate,
forcing them to play on neutral terms, make them define their terms, etc., so that you can stay out
of their dialectic word games and so on. But also, you have to learn to start seeing and
anticipating their moves and manipulations, which you can do once you understand that they are
operating from a dialectical frame and under the belief that they're saving the world,
that they're bringing about a utopia through their actions. So, remember, don't fall for it.
Their negative, alphabin, demolish, deconstruct, disrupt, dismantle process
cannot create. It can only destroy or spend. Harvard University is my favorite example
of this right now. I just saw a thing on Twitter talking about how 40% of its professors are worried
that its brand is losing status. Yeah, it is massively. It's a freaking clown college. Harvard
University is almost 400 years old. It's burned through something like 380 years or something
like this of excellent top notch, top grade branding in just a few years by taking all this
woke crap on. It only took it like four or five years, but really just the last year,
to burn down 400 years. And all it did was enable a few people to grift and a few ideas to get pushed
out with imprimatur that the imprimatur is going to collapse under its own way. This is the same.
All the communists or all of history, all of the neo-Marxists, all history, all of them,
they all do this. They infiltrate some, whether it's an economic institution,
whether it's a cultural institution, they infiltrate it, they spend, spend, spend, spend,
spend, and eventually they burn the thing to the ground because they don't produce anything. And
they have to move on to some new thing to get other people to produce for them because you
can't create through a negation process. Alf Haven doesn't make. Critical theory doesn't build.
Critical theory doesn't even understand. It has no obligation to understand. It has only the
obligation for Alf Haven to cooter. It only has the obligation to tear down. So if you're in the
position where you're looking at this woke nonsense or anything related to it, think twice.
You're not going to do better in your organization. Harvard University burned through its branding.
In a couple of years, you're not going to do better. Coca-Cola and the Department of Backoff,
after they tried to say B less white, Disney's starting to fold. Everything is big. It doesn't
matter how big they are. The federal government of the United States is a laughing stock right now
because they're trying to force this crap both in the critical race theory direction and the
trans direction. Are you out of your mind? Don't take it up. It will burn you to the ground so fast
and it will use you to advance its interests, to grift a little bit, to push its narrative a little
bit further and burn all of your hard-earned cultural, social, and economic capital to the
ground because it can't build. That's all it does. Constant negativity in pursuit of the
magical emergence of the great or the good after all the negative is so-called destroyed
is not going to create good. That's not how it works. Building the good takes actual work.
You actually have to know what you're doing. You actually have to take some risks. You actually
have to do some hard things. Good must be built up and then it must be maintained and defended
and the dialectic cannot do this. It is a process of negating, not building. It can only destroy
and spend. It's central article of faith which is that hermetic alchemical belief that things
will purify and perfect is ultimately wrong. It's bad theory. Bad theory put into practice
makes bad results. So you need to understand that the goal of the dialectic is not in fact
to create at all. So this is why you shouldn't adopt it. If you understand this as a religion,
you understand its goal is to win. Its goal is to take over, to gain dominance. We heard that from
them themselves. This is why the dialectical left is and always has been power obsessed
and seeks to seize the means of the idea, economic, cultural, linguistic, discursive,
or whatever production in society. Its objective is not understanding its operational success.
Its goal is not to create or to build. It is to win, to seize power and to foist as much of its
agenda on the world as it can before it burns out. So to close, I'm going to do something quite
controversial. I'm going to quote from a figure you're not allowed to drag into these kinds of
things named George Soros in his 1992 book called The Alchemy of Finance. He writes the following,
I think you'll see the Hegel in this. Or if you're a scholar of Horkheimer, you'll see the critical
versus traditional theory thing in this. He writes, the scientific method seeks to understand things
as they are while alchemy seeks to bring about a desired state of affairs. To put it another way,
the primary objective of science is truth, that of alchemy operational success. That's George Soros
writing in a book about finance where he explained basically how he was able to
crash and short the pound sterling. He didn't build the British economy. He damaged the British
economy and grifted off of it. Same process. Alchemy is the method. His tool is called reflexivity.
If you want to look up what that is, we're not going to get into that whole second side discussion.
But this is the fundamental difference then between Hegelian alchemy and liberalism or even
conservatism. And it's the same difference that you see in the Neo-Marxist critical theorists
that they put between traditional and critical theory. I could reread Soros' statement that way.
The traditional theory seeks to understand things as they are while critical theory
seeks to bring about a desired state of affairs. To put it another way, the primary objective
of traditional theory is truth, that of critical theory operational success. We could probably say
this in Hegelian language. For Stan to seek to understand things as they are,
well, Vernunft seeks to bring about a desired state of affairs. To put it another way,
the primary objective of Verstand is truth, that of Vernunft is operational success.
This is the same thing that Marx dragged up then in the difference between Wiesen-Schacht
and Wiesen-Schacht-Lichter-Sozialism. I can't say German. We're just going to
Sozialism based on his critical philosophy. So critical philosophy becomes the thing here.
We could put this in. Science seeks to understand things as they are,
while critical philosophy seeks to bring about a desired state of affairs.
The other two, the philosophers, have only sought to understand a world. The point is to
change it. To put it another way, the primary objective of critical philosophy is, or sorry,
the primary objective of science is truth, that of critical philosophy, operational success.
Again, it's the same thing as Hegel saw between Verstand and Vernunft,
understanding and reason, which meant the application of a systematic philosophy to
perfect the ideas of the world according to his own program and thought. Finally,
yet tremendous length. I think we're just closing up on four hours. I have discussed Hegel. As I
told you I would, Hegel's relevance to the woke. My claim that the woke is ultimately a hermetic,
meaning alchemical, religion, based in Hegelian philosophy, rooted in the dialectical process.
Proceeding by the by the neo-Marxist objective of Alphabander Coulter, I believe is now
absolutely established. I think I know what I'm talking about when I say that. I don't think
I'm making it up. I think we have a 200-year-long trajectory of this line of thought stretching
back at least to the young Hegelians, if not Hegel himself. This project has progressed for 200
years. It has caused nothing but calamity everywhere it obtains power. It's attempting to obtain power
through wokeness in the United States and throughout the West today. We should not let that happen.
My practical advice is that people who identify themselves broadly as liberal,
and people who identify themselves as conservatives, should find ways to put their
differences aside, form an alliance, and start pushing out the Hegelian dialectical
leftists. When I say push them out, I mean push them out of positions of power,
push them out of positions of influence, which they can only abuse and waste.
There's my summary of how Hegel is the roots of a huge religious movement that has been
going for 200 years. The woke are its most evangelistic and puritanical eruption
so far in history. That's why I've compared them. Many of them are, in fact, in the United
States at least, coming from a tradition of lapsed Calvinism. They filled in their Calvinist roots
where the Puritanism comes out of. With this woke ideology as the new operating system,
they've adopted a Hegelian faith. If you are a Christian, I hope you are perfectly clear now on
why anything in this kind of critical social justice, critical theory, critical race theory,
et cetera, line of thought is heretical to the Christian faith as it's been traditionally or
in reformed circles practiced. You do not believe in a God that is becoming, that is actualized through
the activities of human beings. You believe in a God that is and is transcendent. You do not believe
in a trinity where one part feeds into another and creates a spiral through utopia at the end of
the world. You believe in a God that created the world three pieces are co-eternal and perfect
and that only He knows the hour of the eschaton. It is an absolute heresy to believe that you can
somehow combine these. As a matter of fact, just for a last note for my Christian friends,
it is a dialectical process, just like we've been talking about, to believe that you can.
So what you would have is Christian faith as it is. Let's bring in something like critical race
theory as an antithesis, a Hegelian faith, and then let's try to find a synthesis. But the synthesis
of anything in a Hegelian thing is going to be Hegelian. So you've already been dragged into a
heretical frame. So Christians need to absolutely repel this on theological grounds. Everybody else
and Christians need to reject this on ethical grounds, on reasonable grounds, on evidentiary
grounds, on just everyday good people common sense grounds, and on the sense of knowing that our
society was premised on the fact that, again, just to bring this up again, it's so important
that rights, this is the Lockean frame, the liberal view that rights are granted by the creator,
we are endowed by a creator with inalienable rights. They are not privileges to be granted
by a state that we are totally to subvert ourselves to. And that's the Hegelian view. So
we're going to reject statism, we're going to reject collectivism, and we're going to defend
the values that have made everything work throughout the West for just as long,
or if not longer, than these two centuries of Hegelian religion.